=== File: amatol/journals/2019-02-15__sojourn__p45-54__all-aboard-for-amatol-new-jersey.txt ===
Page Content:
All Aboard for Amatol, NJ
As a result of America’s entry into World War I, Atlantic County received a great expansion of its industrial economic base. The largest result of this expansion was the construction of Amatol, a planned shell-loading munitions plant and workers’ village that once occupied a tract of 6,000 acres between East Hammonton and Elwood. What is fascinating about Amatol and other planned communities is the speed in which they were completed. In just nine months’ time, the new town and manufactory were completed reaching a population of 7,000. Today, the Pine Barrens have all but reclaimed the former site of Amatol.

History
The history of Amatol begins in December 1917 with the incorporation of the Atlantic Loading Company. Acting as an agent of the United States Government, the Atlantic Loading Company was contracted to construct a large munitions plant and an accompanying town to house the workers. In early 1918, the Atlantic Loading Company planned to build the munitions plant and town near Camp Dix, but because of concerns over water pollution, another location had to be selected. In addition, there were also concerns over the safety of soldiers at Camp Dix due to possible accidents. In testimony given regarding Amatol, Lieutenant Colonel R.H. Hawkins stated that Camp Dix was not selected “because the commanding officer of Camp Dix told us he did not want it near his soldiers.” 

Other sites were considered, including Toms River, Lakehurst, Lacey, and Hammonton. Ultimately, Hammonton was selected. Although no definite source can be cited as to why Hammonton was selected over the other three sites, major reasons did include the potential quality of town life and the design of a safety zone. Additional testimony by Lieutenant Colonel Hawkins reveals this consideration: “We had to build rather attractive accommodations at Amatol. We had to make it just as attractive as we could in order to get people to stay there; particularly in view of the knowledge of most people of the danger.” Being situated between Atlantic City and Philadelphia, Amatol was conveniently located for ease of access to the Jersey Shore and a great metropolitan city. In addition to town amenities, Lieutenant Colonel Hawkins also explained that the size of Amatol—6,000 acres—was meant as a “substantial safety zone.” 

Construction and Development
After the final determination of the site had been made, the Atlantic Loading Company immediately went to work, which caught neighboring towns by surprise. The Tuckerton Beacon reported that on March 2, 1918, the residents of Elwood and Hammonton went to bed with a quiet night as it had been any other. To their surprise, they awoke to see a large force of strangers in their midst, a half hundred freight cars bearing the legend “Ordnance Department U.S.A.,” and heavy motor trucks noisily chugging in the streets. The next day, March 4, construction began.

A detailed description of the construction is recorded by Victor F. Hammel in the Construction and Operation of a Shell Loading Plant and the Town of Amatol, New Jersey, commonly known as the “Amatol book”. In total, 1,600 acres had to be cleared for the plant, and 38 acres had to be cleared and 255 acres trimmed for the town. This was no easy task. The land was mostly wooded with some acres of swamp and was difficult to clear due to a “dense, tangled nature of growth.” The initial workforce included forty men, and within the first week, the first bunkhouse and mess hall were built. 

Development was rapid. By June, the population was nearly 2,000, and train service was added. By August, advertisements for Amatol described it as “a city with all modern improvements with electric lights, a fire department, a police department, a modern sewage system, a modern water plant, a theatre, a Y.M.C.A, an auditorium, bowling alleys, and other city amenities.” Amatol also promised many employment opportunities, not just with the munitions plant, but with local businesses, like barbers, tailors, jewelers, watchmakers, and grocers.

By the signing of the armistice, plant and town structures included: 122 loading buildings, 159 storage buildings and magazines, 4 administration buildings, 6 office buildings, 22 industrial buildings, 7 hospitals, 16 recreation centers, 1 theatre, 18 mess halls, 4 garages, 15 warehouses, 21 railroad structures, 12 stables, 130 guardhouses, sentry boxes, searchlights, etc., 21 commercial stores, 98 male dormitories and bunkhouses, 21 female dormitories, 140 miscellaneous buildings, 24 Army barracks, 4 Y.M.C.A.’s, 11 individual residences, 33 multiple houses, 227 workmen’s houses, 1 post office, 1 school house, 2 fire houses, 444 tent tops, 96 two-roomed family apartments, 179 four-roomed family apartments, 23 three-roomed family apartments. On average, there were four buildings built per day, which was a remarkable speed. The final workforce included over 5,000 construction workers. 

The town reached a peak population of 7,000, had the capacity to house over 10,000, and was planned to accommodate a possible population of 25,000. 

Amatol Plant
Loading operations at the Amatol plant began on July 31, 1918, and on August 3, the first shell was loaded. The plant was capable of loading “60,000 shells of all sizes, 50,000 boosters, 50,000 hand grenades, and 20,000 rifle grenades per day, as well as components. To accomplish this work there were 15 smokeless-powder magazines, 33 T.N.T. magazines, 49 miscellaneous storage buildings, 642 plant structures in all.” The plant, during its operational lifespan, loaded over 9,000,000 rounds of ammunition of various types and sizes. 
Although T.N.T. was preferred and used when available, amatol was used as an alternative due to the shortage of T.N.T. Amatol was “the main charge pressed into the shell (unless straight T.N.T. or a 50/50 mix was used), [and] contains 80 percent of ammonium nitrate and 20 percent of T.N.T.”. The one disadvantage of amatol was that ammonium nitrate absorbs moisture rapidly, and in time deteriorates. The life of a shell loaded with amatol was uncertain after five years while the life of a shell loaded with T.N.T. was indefinite, certainly at least 25 years. 
The Army’s Ordnance Department took over the plant in February 1919 and denominated it Amatol Arsenal. By 1923, Amatol Arsenal ceased operations.

Camp Amatol
In October 1918, 2,400 troops arrived at Amatol to assist in operations there. Their job was to bring the output to full loading capacity and they would even perform civilian tasks. In an October 14 article, many of these soldiers decided to take French leave—an unauthorized departure—by traveling to Atlantic City. A few of the soldiers were jailed when they were unable to show “leave of absence.” By the time of the armistice, there were 3,800 officers and enlisted men at Camp Amatol, as it became known. 

There were also Camp Amatol sports teams. Basketball was a big sport played amongst soldiers, including officers. A December 6, 1918 article records, “the Hammonton five defeated the U.S. Ordnance quintet from Camp Amatol by the score of 19 to 10.” A December 13, 1918 article describes how the U.S. Ordnance Officers team defeated the Amatol team in basketball by the score of 25 to 10. 

Conclusion
In just a matter of months after signing the Armistice, the population of Amatol had virtually vanished, with only a few hundred remaining there. The former munitions complex experienced a brief resurgence in 1926 after an investor backed the construction of the Atlantic City Speedway there. The revival was short-lived as interest quickly waned among the visiting public and other investors. 

Little remains of Amatol today. After a hike through the Pine Barrens, remnants of the munitions plant, town, and racetrack can be found at the former site of Amatol. Of the many buildings and homes that were constructed, only two still remain: the now-abandoned State Police barracks outside of Hammonton and one house, which was moved to the White Horse Pike, where it is still occupied. During the 1980s, the Amatol site was considered for a landfill, but the proposal was shot down due to environmental concerns and an opposition by local residents. Recently, in 2017, more than 500 acres of Amatol (now the Pine Barrens) were preserved. 

Amatol was not the only planned community that South Jersey saw built during World War I. Belcoville, Atlantic County, was also built as a munitions plant and village. Yorkship Village (now Fairview), Camden County, was built to house shipyard workers and their families. In addition, America also saw many new military bases built, which included Camp Dix (now Fort Dix), Burlington County.

What was the overall impact of Amatol on the surrounding area? There is no reliable and readily-available information to answer this question. Where did the residents of Amatol go once operations ceased? According to the Press of Atlantic City, “Many of Amatol’s laborers, predominantly Irish and Polish from Philadelphia, stayed in the area and started families.” 

As the centennial of America’s participation in the First World War draws to a close, it is good to take a moment to remember a little town, built in a forest in New Jersey, which helped with the war effort, and provided employment for thousands of American workers.

Metadata:
  source_type: journal
  source_id: 2019-02-15__sojourn__p45-54__all-aboard-for-amatol-new-jersey
  source_name: SoJourn
  journal: SoJourn
  volume: 3
  issue: 2
  season: Winter 2018/19
  date: 2019-02-15
  pages: 45-54
  title: All Aboard for Amatol, New Jersey
  file_path: amatol/journals/2019-02-15__sojourn__p45-54__all-aboard-for-amatol-new-jersey.txt
  citation: SoJourn 3.2, Winter 2018/19, pp. 45–54, "All Aboard for Amatol, New Jersey"

=== File: amatol/web_articles/2014-08-11__south-jersey-dot-com__amatol-nj-the-town.txt ===
Page Content:
Amatol--The Town
by Editorial Staff--SouthJersey.com | Aug 11, 2014
Amatol--The Town
Did you know that there used to be a town, just outside of Hammonton, called Amatol, that contained a munitions plant and the residences of the plant's workers? There was also a "Speedway" there. Today, if you look closely, you can still see parts of Amatol...
During World War I, a new explosive was invented by the British so that they could stretch their depleting supplies of TNT. This explosive was a mixture of TNT and another high explosive, and it was called Amatol.

In 1917, the US entered the War. Then, in 1918, the US built a plant to supply munitions to the armed forces. It purchased 6000 acres of land a few miles east of Hammonton, NJ, and built a munitions plant and a town to house the 10,000-20,000 plant workers. The plant made munitions of many different types and sizes, and was called Amatol.

The town of Amatol was built two miles away. This distance was to protect the workers and families in the event of an accident at the plant.

This town was planned out well and was built quickly. It included a residential section consisting of houses, dormitories, bunk houses, schools and churches. The industrial section had water, electric and sewage plants. There was a bowling alley, swimming pool, YMCA, tennis courts, and a movie theater for entertainment. The Amatol Railroad was built to transport workers between the plant and town.

When the war ended, the plant closed down and the town was deserted. Within five years, the town and plant were demolished. In 1926, Charles Schwab bought part of the land where the plant had stood and built a "wooden bowl" speedway. The track was one and a half miles long and was made of wood planking, sort of like an oval "boardwalk".

On May 1, 1926 thousands of spectators watched Harry Hartz win the first race of 500 miles. The drivers that came to Amatol Speedway were the same drivers that raced at the Indianapolis Speedway.

The racetrack was only open for two years. On May 30, 1928, the last event was held; a combination stock car and motorcycle race.

Schwab had lost interest in racing and he leased the site as a test track for automobile companies.

In 1933, the wooden track and grandstands were torn down and sold as lumber. The administration building was later remodeled and now houses the Hammonton New Jersey State Police.

Deep in the woods can still be found the concrete foundation of some unknown structure, a blacktop covered floor of another, and the ruins of two concrete buildings now looking more like some long-lost hidden bunkers.

The only thing left of the speedway is the oval layout of the racetrack. The oval can still be seen on aerial or satellite photos of the Hammonton area, and on some old maps. You can still hike around the mile and a half oval, too, but it's well overgrown.

Most of the layout of the town has been lost to the woods.

The Mullica Township recreational park has taken over a little section of the town. Another section of the town is now a large pit used for recreation by ATVs and dirt bikes.

If you dig a bit, you can still find some remnants of Amatol's roads. And if you hike back in the woods, you can still find a few small remnants of the town - chimneys, foundations, concrete slabs, and piles of rubble that used to be houses. In the middle of the "pit," are large concrete blocks that used to be the foundation of Amatol's water tower.

Metadata:
  source_type: web_article
  source_id: south-jersey-dot-com
  source_name: SouthJersey.com
  date: 2014-08-11
  slug: amatol-nj-the-town
  title: Amatol, NJ: The Town
  file_path: amatol/web_articles/2014-08-11__south-jersey-dot-com__amatol-nj-the-town.txt
  citation: SouthJersey.com, 2014-08-11, "Amatol, NJ: The Town"

=== File: amatol/web_articles/2017-05-02__atlas-obscura__amatol-nj-ghost-town.txt ===
Page Content:
Amatol Ghost Town
Added By
Kathleen Butler

In the woods of New Jersey lie the ruins of a munitions village abandoned after World War I and the remnants of a 1920s wooden racetrack.

During the last years of World War I, a new explosive was invented to help stretch the depleting stores of TNT. It was called Amatol, and in 1918, shortly after the United States entered the war, a munitions plant and adjacent factory town were established in New Jersey named after the explosive they manufactured.

Amatol, New Jersey, was built on 6,000 acres of land in the Pine Barrens. The planned community was short lived: After World War I ended that same year, Amatol became a vacant town. The homes were deserted and the plant shut down. Because most of the buildings were built to be temporary, they were dismantled and little was left behind. The factory was eventually demolished.

The structures that were left behind were made out of concrete, and if you make the hike out into the woods and look closely you can see the remnants of the former munitions village: piles of concrete that were once houses and concrete foundations where structures once stood. 

You can also see hints of the racetrack that was built in 1926 on the site of the former munitions plant. The Amatol Racetrack, also known as the Atlantic City Speedway, was the biggest raceway on the East Coast at the time. Made out of wood, it was a 1.5-mile oval track, about 50 feet wide. You can still see the oval outline of the old speedway via Google Earth (coordinates: 39°36'4.59"N, 74°44'37.10"W), an eerie glimpse of where the raceway once existed.

Know Before You Go
The site is southeast of Hammonton on Moss Mill Rd. Three-quarters of where the race track once existed is maintained by Hammonton Creek Wildlife Management Area and you can hike and explore on it without trespassing. However, one-quarter of it is private land, and "No Trespassing" signs are posted. They are clearly marked. Coordinates for parking: 39°36'4.59"N, 74°44'37.10"W. (This is not the private property area.) The ruins are a 1/3 mile hike from the parking area. There is a cut-through path from one side of where the racetrack was to the other side. Take that path and hike approximately three-quarters of the way. Make a right where there is a lightly worn path and it will lead you to the ruins.

Metadata:
  source_type: web_article
  source_id: atlas-obscura
  source_name: Atlas Obscura
  date: 2017-05-02
  slug: amatol-nj-ghost-town
  title: Amatol, NJ: Ghost Town
  file_path: amatol/web_articles/2017-05-02__atlas-obscura__amatol-nj-ghost-town.txt
  citation: Atlas Obscura, 2017-05-02, "Amatol, NJ: Ghost Town"

=== File: amatol/web_articles/2013-12-16__press-of-atlantic-city__ghost-town-of-amatol-nj.txt ===
Page Content:
Mullica Township Ghost Town Amatol Was Once Munitions Village

MULLICA TOWNSHIP — Amatol existed for a matter of months nearly a century ago, but its vegetation-shrouded ruins still beguile residents in this Pinelands outpost.

When operations began in July 1918, the patchwork of munitions factories and residential streets represented a colossal achievement of urban planning. The isolated community swelled with workers who inhabited a new downtown with such amenities as a cafeteria, dance hall, and movie theater.

World War I ended on Nov. 11, 1918 — Armistice Day, later commemorated as Veterans Day — and the 6,000-acre facility was soon shuttered, its buildings dismantled as swiftly as they’d been built. What little remained fell to ruin or was scrapped.

Many of Amatol’s laborers, predominantly Irish and Polish from Philadelphia, stayed in the area and started families.

Time, of course, has taken its toll on Amatol.

Contracted by the federal government amid a world war the allies feared losing, it was built almost simultaneously with the better-known Bethlehem Loading Co. — or Belcoville — a munitions factory whose ruins are now part of the Atlantic County Park in Estell Manor.

The Atlantic Loading Co. transformed a swath of the Pinelands into a grid of streets. Its name came from the type of explosive used in munitions.

Mullica Township was chosen for its proximity to the rail line that ran from Philadelphia to Atlantic City and its relative isolation. At the time, the area was sparsely populated, an advantage in the event of an explosion at the plant. According to historical records, the workers’ city was sited two miles away from the factory in case of an explosion.

Only two buildings from Amatol are still standing: the administration building became the now-abandoned State Police barracks outside Hammonton, and one of the houses was moved to the White Horse Pike, where it’s still occupied.

Interestingly, many of Amatol’s buildings were designed to be temporary. The privately owned forest land behind the township’s recreational fields are strewn with bits of brick, concrete, and terra cotta — the materials used to construct these temporary structures.

“That’s the cheap lath they made to separate the rooms,” Benner said. “It was plaster over wire mesh. When they disintegrated, (the plaster) fell out of the wire mesh.”

The Atlantic County Utilities Authority considered building a landfill on the Amatol site in the mid-1980s, but the proposal ultimately died in part because of potential environmental impacts and an organized opposition by township residents.

Amatol is a story in itself.

Metadata:
  source_type: web_article
  source_id: press-of-atlantic-city
  source_name: Press of Atlantic City
  date: 2013-12-16
  slug: ghost-town-of-amatol-nj
  title: Ghost Town of Amatol, NJ
  file_path: amatol/web_articles/2013-12-16__press-of-atlantic-city__ghost-town-of-amatol-nj.txt
  citation: Press of Atlantic City, 2013-12-16, "Ghost Town of Amatol, NJ"

=== File: amatol/web_articles/2011-06-11__lost-history__brief-history-of-amatol-nj.txt ===
Page Content:
Amatol: A  former World War I munitions factory,  located   in Mullica Township, NJ

The Book

Shell Loading at Amatol, N.J.  (150 scanned pages) is a rare, oversize book that documented the building of a bomb making facility at the tail end of World War I.  Amatol was an extensive and attractive "company town" to support the ordnance facility. That town of 10,000 disappeared very quickly.  However, unlike so many New Jersey "ghost towns", this one was fully documented by the company that built it.  For anyone familiar with the site Amatol, and later, the wood board Atlantic City Speedway occupied, it is a shock to learn that there had been a large ammunition plant and a supporting town on land that is now covered by mature forest.  The only remaining building on the site is the former barracks for the New Jersey State Police located on the White Horse Pike.  The people who developed the facility, the factories and storage plants and the town itself comes to life through beautiful photographs in the book and on post-cards capturing a forgotten time.  Even though it was a well-produced book, the enthusiasm of readers who have discovered the book has taken their toll on the book.  It is the intention of this project to give new life to this wonderful document. 

Amatol Comes to Life

The United States had entered the seemingly endless European war (later called the First World War) on April 6, 1917. In June of 1917 American troops began landing in France. The United States was also increasing its support of materiel for the war effort; one important category was ordnance.  In December of 1917 a group of nationally prominent businessmen  incorporated the Atlantic Loading Company under the laws of the State of Maine.  The effect on local residents is best described in an article from a local newspaper of the time.  The March 9, 1918 issue of the South Jersey Republican gives this account of the activity at the site:  "Never in history was Hammonton so stirred up as on Sunday and Monday, when announcement was made that the Government had taken land four miles below here and proposed employing twenty thousand hands to erect buildings and load shells for war purposes.  The papers were signed Saturday noon, and Sunday nearly a half hundred army trucks, loaded with tools, lumber and supplies, passed through town to the scene, at East Hammonton, this side of Elwood."

Construction

Construction on the plant began March 4, 1918.  Two miles away from the plant site , the town that would house the workers, was also constructed. This distance would ensure the safety of the residents from any accidental explosions at the munition plant.  This circumstance was dramatically demonstrated in the terrible accident at the Naval Ammunition Depot, Lake Denmark, New Jersey in 1926.  Both Amatol and Town-site were complete within nine months time.  The plant was designed for safety and redundancy. The plant was laid out so that an explosion in one building should not damage any other buildings.  This was accomplished by designing the buildings in such a way that an explosion would move upward rather than outward.  Additional protection, in some cases, was provided with soil filled barricades.  Hazardous operations were carried out in duplicate buildings so that if one were destroyed in an explosion the entire operation would not be jeopardized.


The Plant

Amatol was designed to load a whole series of shells. These ranged from 75 mm projectiles to hand grenades. The steel components were brought in by rail and distributed to a series of facilities designated to the loading of specific ordnance. In the book there is a photographic description of each one of these plants. There are also plans for the various buildings and for each plant which indicate the rail and conveyor connections among the buildings of the plant. These are the 75-mm plant, 4.7 inch plant, 6 inch plants, 8 inch plant, hand grenade plant, booster plant, and rifle grenade plant. Amatol was a great example of the newly emerging discipline of industrial organization. Though no direct attribution in given in the book to specific theorists of efficient industrial production a great emphasis is placed on the "perfect organization, methods and equipment" required to achieve the record production accomplished at Amatol. 

Plant Operation

The operation of the loading process is excellently described in the book Shell Loading at Amatol, N.J. :  " Whether the shell be large or small, it is placed lengthwise on the conveyor belt and moves along at a constant speed to the next process.  When it reaches the proper point a workman stationed there simply rolls it off the belt on the bench.  In the case of large, heavy shell this method not only saves time, but a vast amount of physical exertion...While the pressure of war needs was on it was necessary to load amatol rather than straight T.N.T.... The mix has as high explosive power as T.N.T., the one disadvantage of using it being that ammonium nitrate absorbs moisture rapidly, and in time deteriorates.  The life of the shell loaded with straight T.N.T. is indefinite--certainly 25 years--while the condition of shell loaded with amatol would be uncertain after perhaps five years."

Plant Safety

"In the matter of protection, the plant has been covered in many respects beyond the usual means of care to lessen risk.  The operating buildings are practically all steel-frame with composite lath and cement construction or corrugated metal sides.  Hydrants are placed inside and outside the building in such position that all parts can be covered with water.  One hundred feet of hose is provided for each outside hydrant.  Hose racks are placed in the buildings at short intervals and fire buckets 20 feet apart.  A water line patrol is constantly at work to detect defects in the system or accidents, such as broken mains..."   " Buildings where T.N.T. is poured undergo constant cleaning and are flushed out with steam daily.  Exhaust air systems are installed to carry away the fumes and dust.  A safety patrol looks to the cleaning up of T.N.T. dust and the clearing away of waste.  Personal cleanliness among operatives is insisted upon as the best safeguard against possible dangerous effects from working in T.N.T...."

The Town

The references to the planning that went into the development of the Plant echo the focus on planning evident in the building of the town.  This is no accident, the early part of the twentieth century saw the dawning of planned communities.  Architects like Andrew J. Thomas, Henry Wright, Robert D. Kohn, Clarence S. Stein, Frederick L. Ackerman and Thomas Adams were actively involved in the design of towns that incorporated the elements of English Garden Cities.  The planned town of Yorkship Village near Camden, New Jersey was also built during World War. They attempted to combine the best features of the town and the country.  Comparison with similar installations suggests the designers of Amatol were familiar with the principles of town planning used by the major architects of the time.  Great pains were taken to build a town that workers would find attractive and stimulating.

Metadata:
  source_type: web_article
  source_id: lost-history
  source_name: Lost History
  date: 2011-06-11
  slug: brief-history-of-amatol-nj
  title: Brief History of Amatol, NJ
  file_path: amatol/web_articles/2011-06-11__lost-history__brief-history-of-amatol-nj.txt
  citation: Lost History, 2011-06-11, "Brief History of Amatol, NJ"

=== File: amatol/web_articles/2021-02-05__sojo-1049__amatol-raceway.txt ===
Page Content:
Go Back in Time: Amatol Raceway in Hammonton
Published: February 5, 2021
The footprint of Amatol Raceway between Hammonton and Elwood - Photo: Google Maps

Chances are, you've driven on Moss Mill Road across northern Atlantic County -- a very picturesque road that goes through an area that isn't overpopulated or overdeveloped. But did you know that a rather large speedway was once on that road?

The Atlantic City Speedway, also known as Amatol Raceway, opened on May 1, 1926, right on Moss Mill Road between Hammonton and Elwood. Unfortunately, it closed just two years later on May 30th, 1928. But this isn't a straightforward story about a business plan not working out for a bunch of racing fans -- this story involves TNT and World War I.

The speedway was known as Amatol Raceway because it was located in the town of Amatol.

According to an article on atlasobscura.com, the British invented a new explosive during World War I that they called "Amatol." When the United States entered the war, the government bought 6,000 acres of land outside of Hammonton and rather quickly built an entire town for thousands of people that included a munitions plant to make the explosive. They named the town Amatol.

The Press of Atlantic City says Amatol's location was chosen because of its proximity to Philadelphia and Atlantic City, it had easy access to an existing rail line, and it wasn't located near any existing towns in case there was an accident or explosion at the munitions plant.

So what happened to this well-developed town and it's thousands of people? Simply put: the war ended.

When the war ended, pretty much everyone left and within a few years the entire town (which had a population of nearly 10,000) was demolished -- schools, churches, numerous entertainment venues, and more all torn down almost as quickly as they went up.

One report says the government had kicked-around ideas of using the land where Amatol was for experiments involving zeppelins, but that never materialized.

And so enters the story of the racetrack.

In 1926, a man by the name of Charles Schwab (not the stock broker -- he wasn't born until the 1930s) bought a large piece of land where Amatol used to sit and he built a 1.5-mile "wooden bowl" speedway (apparently at a cost of over $1 million), which was the biggest on the East Coast when it was constructed.

The first race was held on May 1, 1926. Thousands of people got to see Harry Hartz win a 500-mile race. Hartz would go on to win two more races in July of that same year.

So what happened to this huge raceway and it's thousands of fans? Simply put: Schwab apparently just lost interest in it.

It's final race, won by Ray Keech, was held on May 30, 1928. The track closed and it was demolished in 1933.

(Interesting side note: about a month before his win at Amatol, Keech set a land speed record of 207.55 MPH. He would go on to win the Indianapolis 500 in 1929 but then died about two weeks later in a racing accident.)

If you've driven on Moss Mill Road between Hammonton and Elwood, you know not much has changed there since the raceway closed in 1933, but one big landmark of the forgotten town of Amatol exists. When you drive past the New Jersey State Police lab on the White Horse Pike before you get into Hammonton, look back -- that large white building is the old administration building for Amatol.

The raceway's footprint is also plotted on Google Maps. Should you wish to hike through that area, please note that some of that land is now private property.

And think of this -- if history had played itself out, South Jersey could have been known as a hub for zeppelin experiments had the government gone ahead with its plans. Or better yet, had Charles Schwab not lost interest in his raceway, Hammonton/Elwood -- and not Indianapolis -- could easily have been the auto racing capital of the world.

Metadata:
  source_type: web_article
  source_id: sojo-1049
  source_name: SoJO 104.9
  date: 2021-02-05
  slug: amatol-raceway
  title: Amatol Raceway
  file_path: amatol/web_articles/2021-02-05__sojo-1049__amatol-raceway.txt
  citation: SoJO 104.9, 2021-02-05, "Amatol Raceway"

=== File: amatol/reports/new-jersey-department-of-health-report-on-amatol-population-1918-1920.txt ===
Page Content:
The principal source of direct pollution of the Mullica River is domestic sewage from the municipality of Hammonton and Amatol. The proposed sewage treatment plan for Egg Harbor City will be an additional source of pollution in the future.

Amatol was established in 1918, as a shell loading plant by the Atlantic Loading Company. The population in 1918 was 7,000, but had decreased to a few hundred in 1920. The sewage
treatment plant was constructed in 1918, and consists of a one-story sedimentation tank and sand filters. The effluent is discharged into Lucas Brook, 20.5 miles from the head of Great Bay.

Metadata:
  source_type: report
  source_id: new-jersey-department-of-health-report-on-amatol-population-1918-1920
  title: Mullica River Section
  coverage_years: 1918-1920
  publication_year: 1921
  date: 1921
  pages: 175
  file_path: amatol/reports/new-jersey-department-of-health-report-on-amatol-population-1918-1920.txt
  citation: Forty-Third Annual Report of the Department of Health of the State of New Jersey, 1920, p. 175, "Mullica River Section"

=== File: amatol/reports/war-department-report-on-amatol-1919.txt ===
Page Content:
AMATOL ARSENAL.

The principal operations of the production department consisted of unpacking, boostering, and repacking 75-millimeter shells which had been loaded during the war period; loading MK III 75-millimeter shells; loading, assembling, and packing MK IV 75-millimeter shells; loading MK IIA fragmentation drop bombs; loading 3-inch AA high-explosive shells MK I; loading drop bombs and boosters of various caliber, together with a varied assortment of experimental loading orders for drop bombs, antiaircraft ammunition, and shells running from 75 millimeters to 14 inches. The production operations were conducted at a low cost. The unpacking, boostering, and re-

packing of 75-millimeter shell, for instance, was completed at a labor cost of 6 cents per shell, whereas contractors during the war period were paid from 17 to 21 cents.

The maintenance department, in addition to urgent repair work on many of the approximately 1,000 buildings in the arsenal, scraped and repainted the corrugated iron roofs of 191 buildings in the plant and storage area and placed gutters and spouts on 167 of these buildings. The railroad transportation division handled 361 incoming and 698 outgoing loaded cars and made 5,819 intrayard car movements. The machinery storage division received 161 carloads of shell-loading machinery and equipment from ordnance establishments being abandoned. This machinery was painted and greased and placed in permanent storage.

At the beginning of the fiscal year the motor transportation consisted of 2 busses, 2 ambulances, 36 touring cars, 38 trucks, and 7 motor cycles. By the close of the fiscal year this equipment had been reduced to 1 ambulance, 6 touring cars, and 6 trucks. The personnel was reduced from 13 chauffeurs and 6 mechanics to 1 chauffeur and 2 mechanics.

In December, 1919, authority was granted to take a complete new physical inventory of the entire arsenal as of December 31, 1919. Material which has been reported to the Salvage Board for disposition will aggregate 250 carloads.

The number of employees at the beginning of the fiscal year was 659 and at the close 337. The population of the village of Amatol, built to house 5,000 employees, was reduced to 100. The sale of the village as a whole was recommended.

The White Horse Turnpike, which runs along the arsenal property line for a distance of 2 miles, is being developed by the State of New Jersey as a concrete boulevard from Camden to Atlantic City, adding desirable motor transportation facilities to the arsenal’s excellent rail connections. The value of the real estate, buildings, equipment, and material in storage is estimated to be approximately $62,000,000.

This arsenal was commanded by Lieut. Col. F. H. Miles, jr., until August 20, 1919, and for the balance of the year by Maj. C. E. Ellis.

Metadata:
  source_type: report
  source_id: war-department-report-on-amatol-1919
  title: Amatol Arsenal
  coverage_years: 1919
  publication_year: 1920
  date: 1920
  pages: 1202-1203
  file_path: amatol/reports/war-department-report-on-amatol-1919.txt
  citation: War Department Annual Reports, 1920, pp. 1202-1203, "Amatol Arsenal"

=== File: amatol/reports/war-department-report-on-amatol-1918-1919.txt ===
Page Content:
AMATOL ARSENAL

In March, 1918, a contract was entered into between the Ordnance  
Department and the Atlantic Loading Co., under which the com-  
pany, as department agent, acquired by lease a tract of 6,000 acres  
in southern New Jersey and erected and equipped a loading plant  
capable of loading 51,000 shell and 100,000 grenades per day. The  
plant was designed for loading 75-mm, 4.7-inch, 6-inch, 8-inch, and  
9.2-inch shell and hand and rifle grenades and drop bombs. It has  
magazine and warehouse facilities for 8,850,000 pounds of ammonium  
nitrate, 6,250,000 pounds of T. N. T., 4,500,000 pounds of smokeless  
powder, and 1,400 carloads of completed rounds. Plant and storage  
areas are inclosed by a wire fence, well lighted and with proper guard  
stations.

In addition to the plant proper there was built a model town,  
Amatol, capable of housing 5,000 employees. The houses were all  
arranged and constructed. There are a church, a post office, two  
schoolhouses, a commodious theater building, a Y. M. C. A. build-  
ing, a laundry, an ice plant, stores and shops, a swimming pool, bil-  
liard rooms, tennis courts, and athletic fields. Two units provide

fire protection for town and plant. Thirty-five miles of railroad  
trackage physically connected with the Pennsylvania Railroad main  
line between Camden and Atlantic City serve the locality. The cost  
of the entire undertaking was about $16,000,000.

On February 20, 1919, the contract was suspended and the plant  
taken over by the Ordnance Department and denominated Amatol  
Arsenal. Lieut. Col. F. H. Miles was made, and continues, command-  
ing officer. The entire tract was purchased for $161,278. There have  
been loaded 175,000 shell and drop bombs, and at the end of the fiscal  
year the arsenal was rapidly completing the loading program allot-  
ted to it. Its principal present activities consist in the storage of  
ordnance materials, about $50,000,000 worth of which is now on  
hand. There is no enlisted personnel.

Metadata:
  source_type: report
  source_id: war-department-report-on-amatol-1918-1919
  title: Amatol Arsenal
  coverage_years: 1918-1919
  publication_year: 1920
  date: 1920
  pages: 3936-3937
  file_path: amatol/reports/war-department-report-on-amatol-1918-1919.txt
  citation: War Department Annual Reports, 1919, pp. 3936-3937, "Amatol Arsenal"

=== File: amatol/reports/war-expenditures-hearings-testimony-of-colonel-hawkins-on-amatol-nj-attractions-needed-1918.txt ===
Page Content:
ORDNANCE. 511

MR. GRAHAM. And how about the one at Brunswick, Ga.?
COL. HAWKINS. That was a pretty good-sized village.
MR. GRAHAM. The houses were modern, were they?
COL. HAWKINS. Maj. Hindman says they had a jim-crow law down there, and it depends upon whether it was the white or the colored village.
MR. GRAHAM. Were the towns built with sewers, waterworks, and all that sort of thing?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
MR. GRAHAM. And with paved streets?
COL. HAWKINS. I do not think we got very far in the paving line.
MR. GRAHAM. You were working at it, were you?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
MR. GRAHAM. Knowing, as you did, that a picric-acid plant must necessarily be only for use and operation during the war and that after the war was over you would have no further use for such a plant, why were not those buildings made of temporary character, such as would suffice for the period of the war and to be abandoned after the war was over?
COL. HAWKINS. I think they were built just as cheaply as they could. That is my observation of the plants; the greatest expense was in machinery, piping, and all that.
MR. GRAHAM. What was the necessity for building a village or town at each of those plants when you knew that it was going to be abandoned after the war was over? And why did you put in sewerage and lights and waterworks and moving-picture shows and all that sort of thing—what was that for?
COL. HAWKINS. Speaking first about the loading plant at Amatol, 25 miles from Atlantic City, we could not get people to go out there. We had to build rather attractive accommodations for them to get them there. It was very hard to get any there. We had to make it just as attractive as we could in order to get people to stay there; particularly in view of the knowledge of most people of the danger. The Morgan, N.J., plant blew all to pieces on the 4th of October, and we had all sorts of trouble getting people to work from that time on. And we had to take soldier labor and put soldiers in some of these plants. We had considerable labor at the plants after that explosion, and before that we were offering them every sort of inducement to get people to work in those plants, and we had to make it pretty attractive to them.
MR. GRAHAM. You were paying the highest kind of wages?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir; paying good wages.
MR. GRAHAM. And paying the demands that they made in the way of wages?
COL. HAWKINS. We had to pay a lot.
MR. GRAHAM. I think that is all.
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.

Metadata:
  source_type: report
  source_id: war-expenditures-hearings-testimony-of-colonel-hawkins-on-amatol-nj-attractions-needed-1918
  title: Testimony of Colonel Hawkins
  coverage_years: 1918
  publication_year: 1919
  date: 1919
  pages: 511
  file_path: amatol/reports/war-expenditures-hearings-testimony-of-colonel-hawkins-on-amatol-nj-attractions-needed-1918.txt
  citation: War Expenditures: Hearings Before Subcommittee No. 5 (Ordnance) of the Select Committee on Expenditures in the War Department, House of Representatives, Sixty-sixth Congress on War Expenditures, vol. 1, p. 511, "Testimony of Colonel Hawkins"

=== File: amatol/reports/war-expenditures-hearings-testimony-of-colonel-hawkins-on-amatol-nj-general-plan-1918.txt ===
Page Content:
MR. GRAHAM. Are there any contracts except these two that you have personal knowledge of?
COL. HAWKINS. You have mentioned the plant marked Hammonton; we call that Amatol, N.J.
MR. GRAHAM. Do you know about that personally?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
MR. GRAHAM. That is where the Government is acquiring a plant of 6,000 acres?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
MR. GRAHAM. A loading plant?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
MR. GRAHAM. Loading what?
COL. HAWKINS. Shells; principally 75's.
MR. GRAHAM. Is it finished?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir; it was in active operation a year ago.
MR. GRAHAM. Do you know whether they produced any shells there?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir; quite a number.
MR. GRAHAM. Do you know how many?
COL. HAWKINS. I do if I can look at one of these reports someplace; it was one of the real live plants; they were slow in getting started.
MR. GRAHAM. How much land did you have there before you acquired this land, 6,000 acres?
COL. HAWKINS. We did not have any; that was a tract acquired from one interest.
MR. GRAHAM. Did you build buildings there?
COL. HAWKINS. We started a plant there in March, 1918, and we went into active operation in July, and very complete operations by the time the armistice was signed. Following that the plant was turned over to the commanding officer and it is now a permanent ordnance plant.
MR. GRAHAM. Is it proposed to keep this permanently?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir; that was turned over to the commanding officer, Col. Miles, and he is doing a certain amount of loading there to-day.
MR. GRAHAM. Loading what; shells?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
MR. GRAHAM. How many buildings do you have there?
COL. HAWKINS. I have a very complete map at the office.
MR. GRAHAM. Well, have you built any since the armistice?
COL. HAWKINS. He has not; except a few magazines.
MR. GRAHAM. Did you have the land leased?
COL. HAWKINS. We had a contract with the Atlantic Loading Co., entered into in December of 1918, and one of the provisions of that contract was that the Atlantic Loading Co., our agent, should procure a site for us, for which we would pay them a rental of $100,000 a year, and that rental should apply on the purchase price which we should pay.
MR. GRAHAM. Which you were to pay?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
MR. GRAHAM. How much land did they have?
COL. HAWKINS. They had this tract of 6,000 acres which they had—
MR. GRAHAM (interposing). Six hundred acres, or 6,000 acres?
COL. HAWKINS. Six thousand acres which they had bought from a land company; we selected the site. They had two or three sites, and we approved the site after two or three other sites had been taken up and considered. We originally expected to build it near Camp Dix, and the commanding officer of Camp Dix told us he did not want it near his soldiers, so we moved.
MR. GRAHAM. Did they do the building then?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
MR. GRAHAM. Had a contract for building it?
COL. HAWKINS. That was part of the main contract they had, the construction and operation of a loading plant as the agent of the United States.
MR. GRAHAM. At the time you made the selection did they at that time own this 6,000 acres?
COL. HAWKINS. No, sir; they bought it from some land company.
MR. GRAHAM. They had it at that time leased at $8 an acre, didn’t they? Well, on July 17, 1918, according to your book, Ordnance—that is, the Ordnance Department—requests the purchase of 6,000 acres at Hammonton, N.J., which has been leased at $8 an acre with privileges of purchase at $38 per acre. Is that correct?
COL. HAWKINS. I think so?
MR. GRAHAM. Who leased it?
COL. HAWKINS. The Atlantic Loading Co. leased it at our request.
MR. GRAHAM. That is what I asked you; I guess you misunderstood me. I asked you if they had it leased.
COL. HAWKINS. They had it leased with the right to purchase it.
MR. GRAHAM. They were leasing it at $8 an acre; how long did that continue?
COL. HAWKINS. I do not know; I assume you have the correct figures there.
MR. GRAHAM. They do not say how long it lasted [reading]:
  *July 17, 1918, Ordnance requests purchase of 6,000 acres at Hammonton, N.J., which has been leased at $8 per acre with privilege of purchase at $38 per acre.*
  
Do you know how long that lease ran before it expired?
COL. HAWKINS. My recollection is that it ran for the period of the war and some time after.
MR. GRAHAM. So that the Government could have continued the occupancy of the land at this $8 an acre?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
MR. GRAHAM. Now, the next step I see is:
  *Report of representative of this office that owners will only consider selling 8,300 acres if price is reduced.*
This is also signed by Mr. Kahn—that owners will only consider selling 8,300 acres if price is reduced.

And then there was a second recommendation on a larger tract. You were then trying to buy 8,300 acres, were you?
COL. HAWKINS. I think the larger tract was tendered to us. There was a scheme to get some water front up on the bay.
MR. GRAHAM. On September 16—the book says September 16, 1919. I judge that is an error and that it should be 1918. In September you began condemnation for 6,000 acres of land. Now, at the time that condemnation was begun, which was approximately a month before the signing of the armistice, you had that land under lease and were occupying it for the purposes of that plant?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
MR. GRAHAM. Some one in the War Department concluded you should buy it, did they?
COL. HAWKINS. Our intention at the start was to buy it, but in September, 1917, Congress had not given any power to buy such land for this purpose. Congress did give power on May 11, 1918.
MR. GRAHAM. Gave power for what?
COL. HAWKINS. Gave power to the Secretary of War to buy land for purposes of this kind.
MR. GRAHAM. General power?
COL. HAWKINS. Well, he had ample power before to buy cantonments and camp sites and then on May 11, 1918, they gave broader powers, and then we did begin to negotiate for the purchase of various plants and on the 22d of May the Secretary of War delegated authority in the matter of procuring real estate to the Real Estate Service under the Purchase, Storage and Traffic Division.
MR. GRAHAM. How many loading plants did you have at the time or have you since acquired?
COL. HAWKINS. We have five loading plants.
MR. GRAHAM. Where are they?
COL. HAWKINS. The Atlantic Loading Co., at Hammonton, or Amatol, as we call it; the Gillespie Loading Co. plant at Morgan, near South Amboy, N.J.; that is the plant which blew up on the 4th of October, 1918; the California Loading Co. plant at Old Bridge, Va.; and one other plant in New Jersey at Mays Landing; and Penneman plant in Virginia operated by the Du Pont Co.
MR. GRAHAM. Did you own these other plants at the time you acquired this Amatol plant?
COL. HAWKINS. We owned a substantial part of the Morgan, N.J., plant. We had a lease, with an option to purchase, on the California plant. We have merely a lease on the Penneman, Va., real estate. We have a commitment to purchase or to pay a very large rent on the Mays Landing plant.
MR. GRAHAM. Now, how many acres did you have in these other plants?
COL. HAWKINS. The Mays Landing plant has 5,000 acres; the Morgan plant, I am not sure, but I should think that was about 5,000. I have been there and all over it; the Old Bridge plant, the California Loading Co. plant, is quite small comparatively speaking—about 1,200 acres; the Penneman plant as I recollect, is 4,000 or 5,000 acres; we lease that.
MR. GRAHAM. Now, prior to this war how many loading plants did we have?
COL. HAWKINS. We hadn’t any. We had an experimental plant at Pickatinny arsenal, and Penneman did some.
MR. GRAHAM. Now, did the Government propose even after the war was over to have five immense plants for loading?
COL. HAWKINS. No, sir; we gave all the plants up and turned them over to salvage except this Amatol plant. The others are in a state of salvage now.
MR. GRAHAM. But this one you propose to keep?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
MR. GRAHAM. Well, what do you want 6,000 acres for?
COL. HAWKINS. We want a substantial safety zone. We have a townsite and a mile and a half away is the plant itself; and then we want to have a substantial safety zone as a safeguard.
MR. GRAHAM. Col. Hawkins, did you build a town over there?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
MR. GRAHAM. How big a town?
COL. HAWKINS. I think for 20,000.
MR. GRAHAM. For 20,000 people?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
MR. GRAHAM. Built the houses?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes; and the movies.
MR. GRAHAM. Where is it?
COL. HAWKINS. It is 25 miles from Atlantic City.
MR. GRAHAM. Are you running that town at present?
COL. HAWKINS. No; we shut it down, except absolute quarters for the people we have there.
MR. GRAHAM. How many houses did you build there?
COL. HAWKINS. I can show you a complete report on it; the kind of houses and the amount spent and the roads and everything else.
MR. GRAHAM. Do you know approximately how much you spent on that place over there?
COL. HAWKINS. About $14,000,000.
MR. GRAHAM. Well, was that under some order of the Secretary of War, or somebody, that that was done?
COL. HAWKINS. In November, I think it was, of 1917, Gen. Crozier submitted this to the General Staff, and my recollection is that the Secretary of War approved it, but did not approve it in writing. Later on, we got his written approval, in the latter part of 1918.
MR. GRAHAM. From the Secretary of War?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
MR. GRAHAM. Was it after the armistice?
COL. HAWKINS. No, sir; it was in September of 1918, I should think. But our original submission of the whole scheme was made in November of 1917, and the contracts were let to most of these companies on the 3rd of December, 1917, and the first one in operation that I recollect was the Gillespie Co. loading plant at Morgan, N.J., and the second one in operation was the Atlantic Loading Co. plant and the third the California loading plant; I am unable to state when the Penneman plant got into operation.
MR. GRAHAM. Now, let us see about this loading plant. In times of peace is there any purpose for any such plant?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes; we have to have some loading facilities. We have done a good deal of it by contractors.
MR. GRAHAM. How is that?
COL. HAWKINS. We have done some by contractors and some in our establishments.
MR. GRAHAM. Is it the purpose of the Government to try to run this institution in peace times?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
MR. GRAHAM. At Amatol?
COL. HAWKINS. Not on a large basis, but to have a nucleus there to begin with in case we need it.
Mr. Graham. What is the Government going to do with those houses?
Col. Hawkins. I imagine, to keep them the best they can.
Mr. Graham. There is nothing else for people to do there, is there?
Col. Hawkins. No, sir; I don’t think so.
Mr. Graham. How far is it from any city?
Col. Hawkins. Twenty-five miles from Atlantic City.
Mr. Graham. Did the Government rent those houses to the employees?
Col. Hawkins. Yes, sir.
Mr. Graham. Was that done by the Ordnance Department or the Housing Bureau?
Col. Hawkins. I think by the Ordnance. I don’t think the Housing Bureau got in on it. We started that before the Housing was authorized for doing work.
Mr. Graham. You got your money out of armament of fortifications?
Col. Hawkins. Yes, sir; “C.”
Mr. Graham. “Armament of fortifications C”?
Col. Hawkins. Yes, sir.
Mr. Graham. You built a complete town?
Col. Hawkins. Yes, sir.
Mr. Graham. Moving pictures, too?
Col. Hawkins. Yes, sir.
Mr. Graham. And sewer and water?
Col. Hawkins. Yes, sir.
Mr. Graham. Did you get it all done before the armistice?
Col. Hawkins. It is my recollection it was all complete; we might have built some more units but we had it in complete operation.
Mr. Graham. Now, you must have done that before you had any land, because this statement says you began your condemnation suit in September 16, 1918.
Col. Hawkins. I understand, Mr. Kahn reported the price too high, and this condemnation proceeding was started.
Mr. Graham. Then your town and all those things were built before you had title?
Col. Hawkins. Yes, sir.
Mr. Graham. And, of course, you had to get the title after you had all those things?
Col. Hawkins. Yes; we had an option of purchase from the agent.
Mr. Graham. Yes; I understand what an option is; you can take it or not as you see fit, usually with a penalty.
Col. Hawkins. Our purpose was to take the land.
Mr. Graham. You put yourself in a position where you had to take it?
Col. Hawkins. I do not think so. We have not taken the California loading plant, and we do not propose to.
Mr. Graham. You haven't any town on that?
Col. Hawkins. Yes; a small village; we spent about $2,000,000, I think.

Metadata:
  source_type: report
  source_id: war-expenditures-hearings-testimony-of-colonel-hawkins-on-amatol-nj-general-plan-1918
  title: Testimony of Colonel Hawkins
  coverage_years: 1918
  publication_year: 1919
  date: 1919
  pages: 490-494
  file_path: amatol/reports/war-expenditures-hearings-testimony-of-colonel-hawkins-on-amatol-nj-general-plan-1918.txt
  citation: War Expenditures: Hearings Before Subcommittee No. 5 (Ordnance) of the Select Committee on Expenditures in the War Department, House of Representatives, Sixty-sixth Congress on War Expenditures, vol. 1, pp. 490-494, "Testimony of Colonel Hawkins"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-11-10__philadelphia-inquirer__p6__united-states-army-bands-play.txt ===
Page Content:
Enthusiasm Marks Opening W. W. Drive
Atlantic City Starts Spectacular Initial Move—French Band a Feature
1918-11-09
Atlantic County’s United War Work campaign opened tonight with a rousing meeting on the Steel Pier, at which the big attraction was the French Army Band now touring the country. The musicians from overseas were given an enthusiastic reception.

A feature of the gathering was the massing of the French band with two United States Army bands from Belcoville and Amatol, in playing the “Marseillaise” and the “Star-Spangled Banner.”

Inspiring addresses were delivered by Lieutenant Lofting, of the Irish Guards, Sergeant Gordon Cooper, U. S. A., invalided home from the front, and Dr. Cyrus Townsend Brady, the author.

The mass meeting was preceded this afternoon by a great street parade this afternoon, participated in by over a score of organizations, and several hundred soldiers who are employed in the munition plants at Belcoville and Amatol. The parade, which included a half-dozen bands, was headed by the City Commissioners and the United War Work Drive Committee.

Atlantic County’s allotment in the present drive is $97,000, and a portion of this amount was raised at the big mass meeting at the Steel Pier tonight, where the utmost enthusiasm prevailed.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1918-11-10
  page: p6
  title: Enthusiasm Marks Opening W. W. Drive
  subtitles: ['Atlantic City Starts Spectacular Initial Move—French Band a Feature']
  attribution: None
  city_date: ATLANTIC CITY, Nov. 9.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-11-10__philadelphia-inquirer__p6__united-states-army-bands-play.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1918-11-10, p6, "Enthusiasm Marks Opening W. W. Drive: Atlantic City Starts Spectacular Initial Move—French Band a Feature"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-03-04__asbury-park-press__p2__location-selection.txt ===
Page Content:
$11,000,000 Plant
Steel Company Begins Work for Loading Munitions in Jersey.
1918-03-03
A great munitions loading plant is to be erected in Atlantic County at a cost of $11,000,000, it was announced here yesterday. A three-mile stretch of timber land between Hammonton and Elwood had been selected by a steel company, whose identity is carefully withheld, for the operation within a few miles of Camp Dix, but a month ago the federal government ordered the work stopped because of the fear that the industry would pollute the camp’s water supply.

Meanwhile, the steel company obtained a tract in this county, and the contract for construction has been awarded to a New York concern. Work on clearing the tract will begin in a few days. When completed more than 8,000 men and women will be employed. The district is now reached by the Pennsylvania Railroad, and it is believed that the Reading lines will go into the section at an early date. The Bethlehem Steel Company already has under way a big improvement on the mainland, and it is rumored that this corporation may be behind the new undertaking.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: asbury-park-press
  source_name: Asbury Park Press
  date: 1918-03-04
  page: p2
  title: $11,000,000 Plant
  subtitles: ['Steel Company Begins Work for Loading Munitions in Jersey.']
  attribution: None
  city_date: ATLANTIC CITY, March 4
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-03-04__asbury-park-press__p2__location-selection.txt
  citation: Asbury Park Press, 1918-03-04, p2, "$11,000,000 Plant: Steel Company Begins Work for Loading Munitions in Jersey."

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-12-25__philadelphia-inquirer__p2__first-wedding.txt ===
Page Content:
Philadelphia Actress Marries
1918-12-24
Announcement was made today of the marriage of Miss Agnes Belcher, an actress of Philadelphia, and Peter James Reilly, of New York City, at Amatol. The wedding was the first solemnized at the town which was created by the large munition plants in the locality.

The groom, who was employed as a guard, recently fell heir to a large fortune by the will of a deceased uncle in the West. Rev. Thomas M. Sparks, of Hammonton, performed the ceremony yesterday afternoon.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1918-12-25
  page: p2
  title: Philadelphia Actress Marries
  subtitles: []
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: ATLANTIC CITY, N. J., Dec. 24.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-12-25__philadelphia-inquirer__p2__first-wedding.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1918-12-25, p2, "Philadelphia Actress Marries"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-12-05__philadelphia-inquirer__p4__operations-halt.txt ===
Page Content:
2000 Powder Makers Are Laid Off
1918-12-04
Atlantic county’s big output of war munitions, which started to do uninterruptedly several months ago, following the expenditure of many millions of dollars at the two shell loading plants at Belcoville and Amatol, has virtually ceased. Nearly two thousand men employed at the plant of the Bethlehem Loading Company, Belcoville, have been laid off during the past two days.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1918-12-05
  page: p4
  title: 2000 Powder Makers Are Laid Off
  subtitles: []
  attribution: None
  city_date: ATLANTIC CITY, Dec. 4.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-12-05__philadelphia-inquirer__p4__operations-halt.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1918-12-05, p4, "2000 Powder Makers Are Laid Off"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-09-03__philadelphia-inquirer__p2__patriotic-labor-day-observation.txt ===
Page Content:
Atlantic Loading Co. Holds Flag Raising
Patriotic Programme Marks Celebration of Labor Day at Magnolia
1918-09-02
Labor Day was observed at the big munition plant of the Atlantic Loading Company with exercises of a highly patriotic character. The exercises were arranged by John A. Broadhard and A. A. Patterson, of the Y. M. C. A. Chief of Police Edward J. D. Wyre, acting as master of ceremonies.

The Magnolia camp entertainment was featured by the raising of a large American flag. Prior to the flag raising a patriotic programme lasting two hours held the attention of an appreciative audience. Included in the programme were numerous selections by the Egg Harbor City Band, an impressive prayer by Rev. Charles Field, pastor of the Elmwood Church; selections by John N. Trouhart and William Westcott. The reading of President Wilson’s labor address, two patriotic selections by Mrs. Elsie Hibbs, a fine address by Charles Brand, of New York city, and George M. Wade, of the Y. M. C. A., who spent nine months in France.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1918-09-03
  page: p2
  title: Atlantic Loading Co. Holds Flag Raising
  subtitles: ['Patriotic Programme Marks Celebration of Labor Day at Magnolia']
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: HAMMONTON, N. J., Sept. 2
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-09-03__philadelphia-inquirer__p2__patriotic-labor-day-observation.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1918-09-03, p2, "Atlantic Loading Co. Holds Flag Raising: Patriotic Programme Marks Celebration of Labor Day at Magnolia"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-10-08__philadelphia-inquirer__p6__explosion-at-gillespie-relocates-workers-to-amatol.txt ===
Page Content:
Gillespie Workmen To Hammonton
1918-10-07
It is understood here that several thousand of the workmen from the Gillespie plant, destroyed by an explosion, will come here and work at the Amatol plant. Many additional buildings will be erected, as it is understood that the two concerns will be separate, but under the same government supervision.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1918-10-08
  page: p6
  title: Gillespie Workmen To Hammonton
  subtitles: []
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: HAMMONTON, N. J., Oct. 7.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-10-08__philadelphia-inquirer__p6__explosion-at-gillespie-relocates-workers-to-amatol.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1918-10-08, p6, "Gillespie Workmen To Hammonton"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-03-07__tuckerton-beacon__p1__new-site-selected.txt ===
Page Content:
People Arise To Discover Evidences Of Government’S War Activities
GREAT TRACT TAKEN OVER
Elwood Stores and Homes Under Lease and Residents Prepare To Leave.
1918-03-06
Transformed over-night from a peaceful Atlantic County hamlet into the nucleus of a great $11,000,000 shell-loading plant, Elwood, 25 miles from the resort, has been figuratively rubbing its eyes all day. When Elwoodians retired to rest last night they were surrounded by the quiet and calm that have characterized their community since the coming of the first settler.

When they awoke today a large force of strangers had landed in their midst; their eyes beheld on the little-used side-track of the West Jersey & Seashore Railroad a half hundred freight cars bearing the legend, “Ordnance Department, U. S. A.,” and heavy motor trucks similarly decorated, chugged noisily about the quiet streets. 

Amazed at the transformation, and, with few exceptions entirely ignorant of its cause, the people immediately began diligent inquiries and were amazed to learn that their town had been chosen as the directing center of a great industrial project, the construction of which will begin tomorrow morning.

They learned that the strangers were made up of real estate men, whose work in securing the huge tract on which a shell-loading plant will stand has been practically completed; of construction workers in the employ of the Atlantic Loading Company, of New York, to which has been awarded the work of erecting the plant; and a force of engineers attached to the War Department. 

The Government representatives, they found, had come to talk business, and an hour after they had located Arthur Walker, proprietor of the Griswold Garden Tea Room, a favorite haunt for automobilists, they had bought the building and had begun the work of transforming it into a central office.

Daniel B. Frazier, owner of a great part of the tract on which the new war industry will stand, worked diligently with J. B. Manly, of Somers Point, as his agent, among the few owners of the property who were holding out for bigger prices. They had practically completed their task before the day closed, and the word went out tonight that work on the great plant will positively begin tomorrow.

Two hundred men will arrive late tonight and this number will be increased to at least 1000 before tomorrow night. 

Options have been secured on the entire town of Elwood, including stores and residences, and the whole hamlet will in all probability be purchased by the big steel company behind the project for housing its thousands of employees during the construction of the plant.

Building contractors visited the hamlet during the day, picking out the most desirable sites for barracks for workmen and other structures which will be used while the work of erection is going on.

The space on which the plant will be erected, made up for the most part of the Frazier and Jarmlusky tracts, is bounded in triangle shape by Hammonton, Elwood and Indian Mills, comprising several thousand acres.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: tuckerton-beacon
  source_name: Tuckerton Beacon
  date: 1918-03-07
  page: p1
  title: People Arise To Discover Evidences Of Government’S War Activities
  subtitles: ['GREAT TRACT TAKEN OVER', 'Elwood Stores and Homes Under Lease and Residents Prepare To Leave.']
  attribution: None
  city_date: Atlantic City, March 3.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-03-07__tuckerton-beacon__p1__new-site-selected.txt
  citation: Tuckerton Beacon, 1918-03-07, p1, "People Arise To Discover Evidences Of Government’S War Activities: GREAT TRACT TAKEN OVER; Elwood Stores and Homes Under Lease and Residents Prepare To Leave."

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-11-12__philadelphia-inquirer__p11__war-is-over.txt ===
Page Content:
Pandemonium Reigns At Seashore Resort
1918-11-11
Atlantic City heard the news of the ending of the greatest war in history before daylight this morning, and shortly afterwards ensued scenes of pandemonium such as never have been enacted here. The town became intoxicated with joy and remained so until late tonight.

As the morning progressed gaily decorated automobiles made their appearance on the Atlantic avenue, and by noon there was a steady procession of cars up and down the avenue. All business was suspended and all offices were closed for the day and all joined in the merry-making.

Munition workers employed in the plants at Belcoville and Amatol learned of the signing of the armistice on their way to work at 6 o'clock. They immediately turned back and operations at the two big plants were practically suspended.

Mayor Bacharach declared a legal holiday. “Business can wait. Nothing matters in the face of such glorious news as the ending of the war!” he said. “We will have a holiday and give the entire day to rejoicing and praise to God for His mercies and the ending of this terrible war.”

The big event came tonight, when a monster parade took place on Atlantic avenue. It was the greatest pageant in point of numbers and enthusiasm in the history of the resort. Director of Public Safety W. Frank Story was marshal, and there were thousands of gailydecorated automobiles and many floats in line, in addition to nearly every organization in the city, including the State Militia, headed by Major Charles Bacharach, the Red Cross, the school children and the suffragists.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1918-11-12
  page: p11
  title: Pandemonium Reigns At Seashore Resort
  subtitles: []
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: ATLANTIC CITY, Nov. 11.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-11-12__philadelphia-inquirer__p11__war-is-over.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1918-11-12, p11, "Pandemonium Reigns At Seashore Resort"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-03-20__trenton-evening-times__p2__food-supplies.txt ===
Page Content:
Magowan Goes To Building Concern
1918-03-19
The State House Commission today granted to Donald T. Magowan, an assistant in the State Purchasing Department, an indefinite leave of absence to accept the position of assistant purchasing agent of the commissary stores for the Atlantic Loading Company which is beginning work on a large government operation at Elwood, near Atlantic City. In his new office, which he will assume next Monday, it will be Mr. Magowan’s duty to purchase all the food supplies required in feeding of 5,000 men to be employed in the operation. He will also provide the supplies necessary for the housing of the men. The company proposes to erect 1,500 houses on the tract, which covers a length of 7 miles.

Mr. Magowan was for several years with the Child’s chain of restaurants and the Hildebrecht Company of this city. It is not certain at this time how long his new duties will require his absence from the State House.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: trenton-evening-times
  source_name: Trenton Evening Times
  date: 1918-03-20
  page: p2
  title: Magowan Goes To Building Concern
  subtitles: []
  attribution: None
  city_date: Trenton, NJ. March 19
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-03-20__trenton-evening-times__p2__food-supplies.txt
  citation: Trenton Evening Times, 1918-03-20, p2, "Magowan Goes To Building Concern"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-02-08__trenton-evening-times__p1__cannot-be-built-by-camp-dix.txt ===
Page Content:
Munitions Plant Will Be Removed
To Establish It at Whiting’s, Preventing Menace to Camp Dix
1918-02-07
Finding that location of the munitions plant of the Atlantic Loading Company, near Brown’s Mills, would menace the water supply at Camp Dix, the State Department of Health has communicated with General Scott its information in the matter.

The proposed munitions plant was to be located in territory that is part of the watershed from which Camp Dix receives its water. Dr. F. F. FitzRandolph, of the division of sewage, conducted the correspondence with General Scott.

It is understood that the plant of the Atlantic Loading Company will be built on a new site near Whiting’s Station, where the construction of a great munitions factory and employees’ village at a cost of $11,000,000 will not interfere with the Camp Dix water supply.

Before it was decided to change the site of the plant, it is understood that the Government spent $20,000 at the Browns’ Mills location.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: trenton-evening-times
  source_name: Trenton Evening Times
  date: 1918-02-08
  page: p1
  title: Munitions Plant Will Be Removed
  subtitles: ['To Establish It at Whiting’s, Preventing Menace to Camp Dix']
  attribution: None
  city_date: Trenton, NJ. Feb. 7
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-02-08__trenton-evening-times__p1__cannot-be-built-by-camp-dix.txt
  citation: Trenton Evening Times, 1918-02-08, p1, "Munitions Plant Will Be Removed: To Establish It at Whiting’s, Preventing Menace to Camp Dix"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-06-05__philadelphia-inquirer__p13__new-train-service-and-population-size.txt ===
Page Content:
Accommodations For Loaders
1918-06-04
The West Jersey and Seashore Railroad has just inaugurated a train service to Amatol, the new town built by and for the Atlantic Loading Company, the new munition concern whose plant is located several miles from this place. Amatol is now a hustling community of nearly two thousand people. The new service makes one trip a day between Berlin and Amatol, and two trips a day between this place and Amatol. Hundreds of employees patronized the service yesterday, the initial day of the project.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1918-06-05
  page: p13
  title: Accommodations For Loaders
  subtitles: []
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: HAMMONTON, N. J., June 4
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-06-05__philadelphia-inquirer__p13__new-train-service-and-population-size.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1918-06-05, p13, "Accommodations For Loaders"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-12-14__philadelphia-inquirer__p2__work-of-some-sort-to-still-continue.txt ===
Page Content:
Amatol Works To Continue
1918-12-13
That the big plant at Amatol will be retained by the government is indicated by the fact that Captain E. H. Nash, who is in charge, has requested permission of the Atlantic County Board of Freeholders to lay two sets of additional tracks across the county boulevard. According to a member of the Board of Freeholders, condemnation proceedings have been started on some of the lands close to the plant. The recent visit of War Department officials, said to have included Secretary Newton D. Baker, is believed to have settled the status of the plant and that government work of some kind will be continued there indefinitely.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1918-12-14
  page: p2
  title: Amatol Works To Continue
  subtitles: []
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: HAMMONTON, N. J., Dec. 13.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-12-14__philadelphia-inquirer__p2__work-of-some-sort-to-still-continue.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1918-12-14, p2, "Amatol Works To Continue"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-03-04__philadelphia-inquirer__p5__work-planned.txt ===
Page Content:
Big Munition Plants Under Way In Jersey
Work of Clearing Land Begins at May's Landing, New Plant at Elwood
1918-03-03
Operations upon the construction of the plant of the Atlantic Loading Company, which is controlled by the Bethlehem Steel Company, will be started tomorrow at May’s Landing. The company will do its own building instead of letting out the contract.

The company will start in tomorrow morning with a large force to clear away the brush and woodland from the ground which was purchased by the company some time ago. Hundreds of workmen will be employed. The plant will be operated under the immediate direction of the United States Government.

There are three miles of woodland extending from the tracks of the West Jersey and Seashore Railroad to be cleared.

It is reported here that a big munitions loading plant is to be built on a stretch of woodland lying between that city and the town of Elwood, which is to cost about $11,000,000. It is said that this is the same plant which was to have been built in Burlington county, not far from Camp Dix, but which was stopped by the government after it was shown to the New Jersey Water Supply Commission that its construction would result in the pollution of the water used at Camp Dix.

It is stated that several thousand men and women will be employed when the plant is completed. The district is now tapped by the Pennsylvania Railroad, and it is stated that the Reading lines will also be extended to the plant.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1918-03-04
  page: p5
  title: Big Munition Plants Under Way In Jersey
  subtitles: ["Work of Clearing Land Begins at May's Landing, New Plant at Elwood"]
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: ATLANTIC CITY, N. J., March 3.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-03-04__philadelphia-inquirer__p5__work-planned.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1918-03-04, p5, "Big Munition Plants Under Way In Jersey: Work of Clearing Land Begins at May's Landing, New Plant at Elwood"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-10-18__philadelphia-inquirer__p14__nearby-saloons-causing-problems.txt ===
Page Content:
Egg Harbor City Target For "Drys"
1918-10-17
Hammonton patriots have taken up the question of open bars at Egg Harbor City, where the saloonists determined to take a chance in defying the edict of the State Board of Health, claiming their local board would stand back of them. Prosecutor Gaskill has been requested to act, and complaint has been made to the War Department that these places are interfering with the efficiency of the big munition plant at Amatol, near this place.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1918-10-18
  page: p14
  title: Egg Harbor City Target For "Drys"
  subtitles: []
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: HAMMONTON, N. J., Oct. 17.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-10-18__philadelphia-inquirer__p14__nearby-saloons-causing-problems.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1918-10-18, p14, "Egg Harbor City Target For "Drys""

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-08-25__philadelphia-inquirer__p11__amatol-a-modern-city.txt ===
Page Content:
Amatol, A Modern City
1918-08-24
The shell loading plant of the Atlantic Loading Company is now in the course of construction of the town and plant of Amatol.

Amatol is a city with all modern improvements, located three miles from plant, with electric lights, fire department, police department, modern sewage system, modern water plant, Y. M. C. A. auditorium, recreation halls, bowling alleys, etc.
It is estimated that the permanent population of the town of Amatol will be over 10,000 people.

The following business opportunities are open in the town of Amatol:
Provision shop to carry groceries, meat, vegetables, etc.
Tailor shop.
Millinery and women's department.
Baker.
Hardware Store.
Furniture store.
Jeweler and watchmaker.

Only responsible and up-to-date business men will receive recognition.

For further particulars, apply Renting Agent.
ATLANTIC LOADING CO.
Hammonton, N.J.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1918-08-25
  page: p11
  title: Amatol, A Modern City
  subtitles: []
  attribution: None
  city_date: Philadelphia, PA, August 24
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-08-25__philadelphia-inquirer__p11__amatol-a-modern-city.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1918-08-25, p11, "Amatol, A Modern City"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-03-12__philadelphia-inquirer__p4__big-industrial-boom.txt ===
Page Content:
Plants To Work 8000 Men
War Gives Atlantic County, N.J., Big Industrial Boom
1918-03-11
With two of the largest ammunition plants in the Nation located within her confines, that of the Bethlehem Loading Company, a subsidiary of the Bethlehem Steel Company, here, and the other than of the Atlantic Loading Company, a subsidiary of the General Electric Company, at Elwood, Atlantic county takes a front place in the industrial world. Four thousand hands will be employed in each.

Both are under direct government supervision, but each will be conducted separately, under the management of the above firms. The two big plants will be almost identical in size, equipment and method of operation and their effect on the surrounding county will be farreaching. Like the plant of the Bethlehem concern at this place, the Atlantic plant will be a "war plant" and subject to war conditions, but in the case of each it is doubtful that such heavy investment in buildings, machinery, living quarters, railroads, and other equipment will be abandoned after the war demand ceases and permanent industry will result.

Mays Landing is beginning to feel the effects of construction work on the big loading plant here, which is well under way and will be a hive of industry in a short time.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1918-03-12
  page: p4
  title: Plants To Work 8000 Men
  subtitles: ['War Gives Atlantic County, N.J., Big Industrial Boom']
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: MAYS LANDING, N. J., March 11.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-03-12__philadelphia-inquirer__p4__big-industrial-boom.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1918-03-12, p4, "Plants To Work 8000 Men: War Gives Atlantic County, N.J., Big Industrial Boom"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-10-14__philadelphia-inquirer__p6__soldiers-take-french-leave.txt ===
Page Content:
3000 Soldiers Reach Shell Loading Plants
Scores Take French Leave and Visit Seaside Resort. Housing Problem
1918-10-13
Three thousand soldiers from various cantonments have arrived at the shell-loading plants at Amatol and Belcoville, this county, to help in bringing the output up to the full loading capacity of the two plants. Officials of the companies declare that two thousand additional troops are on their way to the plants, making five thousand in all to be utilized in the loading of shells.

Scores of soldiers sent to the munitions plants took French leave today and came to Atlantic City. Over a dozen unable to show "leave of absence" cards were picked up by the police and jailed until arrangements were made to send them back to the plants.

Mayor Bacharach again insists that prior to shipping munition workers here to be housed an effort should be made to ascertain what manner of men they are. Chairman S. P. Leeds, of the Housing Committee, declares that he is willing merely to house the soldiers sent here, but that he has nothing to do with their conduct.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1918-10-14
  page: p6
  title: 3000 Soldiers Reach Shell Loading Plants
  subtitles: ['Scores Take French Leave and Visit Seaside Resort. Housing Problem']
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: ATLANTIC CITY, Oct. 13.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-10-14__philadelphia-inquirer__p6__soldiers-take-french-leave.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1918-10-14, p6, "3000 Soldiers Reach Shell Loading Plants: Scores Take French Leave and Visit Seaside Resort. Housing Problem"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-02-21__asbury-park-press__p7__new-locations-for-atlantic-loading-co.txt ===
Page Content:
Locate War Plant At Toms River
Atlantic Loading Co. Will Make Shells at New Factory--To Employ 20,000 Men.
1918-02-20
People in this section of Ocean County are very much interested over the announcement that the Atlantic Loading company of New York has practically decided to locate the big loading plant at this place. There has been a good deal of uncertainty for the past two weeks as to where the plant would be located, four sites having been under consideration: the Davenport tract here, the Bidwell-Stone property at Lakehurst, the Cedar Crest site, and a site at Hammonton. 

Engineers of the War Department have been here for more than two weeks plotting and testing out the ground, and while no exact statement has been made as to the selection, an automobile load of blueprints for the buildings arrived from New York last night, followed by 10 engineers and contractors today. 

Officials of the War Department and of the Atlantic Loading Company have been in consultation all day with George W. Holman, president of the Ocean County Trust Company, William M. Blecher, editor of the Toms River Courier, and George O. Van Ness, president of the County Tax Board, who have been the leaders in the fight to get the plant located here, and they’ve practically assured them the site here will be selected. 

The plant will load shells for the government, and not manufacture ammunition, as was at first stated. The proposed site is along the main line of the Pennsylvania Railroad, having a railroad frontage of more than five miles, and will consist of some 900 acres. Options on all the land have been secured and are in the hands of the engineers while the titles are being searched at the county clerk’s office. 

It has been stated that the plant will open with 400 men and will increase until 20,000 are employed. 

It had been the original intention of the company to locate at Hanover Farms, 10 miles west of this place, and work was begun, when it was discovered that the water used at the plant came from the same stream that supplies Camp Dix, and the work was stopped on orders from the War Department. Immediately the board of trade put the matter in the hands of Mr. Holman, Mr. Blecher, and Mr. Van Ness, who secured options on this tract with the result so far achieved. 

The site under consideration is located on what is locally known as the Chemical Company property and the Davenport section. The Chemical property was owned and operated by the Davis Chemical Company for a number of years and was later recarried into the bankruptcy courts by the creditors of the company.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: asbury-park-press
  source_name: Asbury Park Press
  date: 1918-02-21
  page: p7
  title: Locate War Plant At Toms River
  subtitles: ['Atlantic Loading Co. Will Make Shells at New Factory--To Employ 20,000 Men.']
  attribution: None
  city_date: TOMS RIVER, Feb. 21
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-02-21__asbury-park-press__p7__new-locations-for-atlantic-loading-co.txt
  citation: Asbury Park Press, 1918-02-21, p7, "Locate War Plant At Toms River: Atlantic Loading Co. Will Make Shells at New Factory--To Employ 20,000 Men."

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-10-10__philadelphia-inquirer__p6__amatol-s-growing-importance-for-war.txt ===
Page Content:
Troops Take Over Loading Plant
1918-10-09
With the arrival of 2400 troops and the expected coming of more, the plant of the Atlantic Loading Company at Amatol, bids fair to become the greatest munition producing plant in the country. It is understood that orders have been issued by the Federal authorities that many million shells must be finished by December 31 and that every employee including the troops, who, it is said, will get down to civilian tasks for a month at least, must exert every effort to complete the allotment.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1918-10-10
  page: p6
  title: Troops Take Over Loading Plant
  subtitles: []
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: HAMMONTON, N. J., Oct. 9.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1918/1918-10-10__philadelphia-inquirer__p6__amatol-s-growing-importance-for-war.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1918-10-10, p6, "Troops Take Over Loading Plant"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1920/1920-01-08__philadelphia-inquirer__p5__budget-estimates.txt ===
Page Content:
Amatol Arsenal Prepares Budget
1920-01-07
According to a statement issued by Major C. E. Ellis, U. S. A., estimates are now being prepared, following government orders, for the maintenance of Amatol Arsenal for this and next year, thus disposing of reports that this arsenal, the largest in the country, was to soon close.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1920-01-08
  page: p5
  title: Amatol Arsenal Prepares Budget
  subtitles: []
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: HAMMONTON, N. J., Jan. 7.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1920/1920-01-08__philadelphia-inquirer__p5__budget-estimates.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1920-01-08, p5, "Amatol Arsenal Prepares Budget"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-02-14__philadelphia-inquirer__p2__bomb-plot-suspected.txt ===
Page Content:
Fear Bomb Plot
Amatol Munition Works Under Heavy Guard
1919-02-13
Reports are current here among employees and soldiers that a threat to blow up the big munition plant at Amatol, within the next forty-eight hours, has been received by the plant authorities. 

Heavy guards have been thrown out to cover all parts of the plant. A bomb with a time fuse attached is reported to have been detected by guards at the Belleville plant last night.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1919-02-14
  page: p2
  title: Fear Bomb Plot
  subtitles: ['Amatol Munition Works Under Heavy Guard']
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: HAMMONTON, N. J., Feb. 13
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-02-14__philadelphia-inquirer__p2__bomb-plot-suspected.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1919-02-14, p2, "Fear Bomb Plot: Amatol Munition Works Under Heavy Guard"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-01-05__philadelphia-inquirer__p14__special-train-discontinued.txt ===
Page Content:
Amatol Special Train Taken Off
1919-01-04
The employees of the government shell plant at Amatol, near Elwood, who reside between Atlantic City and that place, have been given notice that the special train which has been running daily to the plant from Atlantic City will be discontinued after January 15. The employees believe that this is notice that the plant will soon close down.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1919-01-05
  page: p14
  title: Amatol Special Train Taken Off
  subtitles: []
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: PLEASANTVILLE, N. J., Jan. 4.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-01-05__philadelphia-inquirer__p14__special-train-discontinued.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1919-01-05, p14, "Amatol Special Train Taken Off"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-03-26__philadelphia-inquirer__p1__fire-threatened-amatol.txt ===
Page Content:
Arsenal Out Of Danger From Bush Fire Menace
Action Taken None Too Soon; Blaze Within 100 Feet of Amatol Buildings
1919-03-25
The government arsenal at Amatol, near here, containing large quantities of T.N.T. and other explosives, which was in the path of brush fires, was entirely out of danger tonight, according to Major C. E. Ellis, commanding officer at the arsenal. One fire came within a few hundred feet of one of the arsenal buildings today, but by quick and efficient work the flames were extinguished. 

Dozens of scrub oak fires have been burning in this section during the present week, and the army officers took early action to guard the arsenal. 

Guards have been out day and night and detachments of men have been fighting small brush fires for several days. The State, through the State fire marshal, is assisting in putting out the fires.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1919-03-26
  page: p1
  title: Arsenal Out Of Danger From Bush Fire Menace
  subtitles: ['Action Taken None Too Soon; Blaze Within 100 Feet of Amatol Buildings']
  attribution: None
  city_date: HAMMONTON, N. J., March 25.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-03-26__philadelphia-inquirer__p1__fire-threatened-amatol.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1919-03-26, p1, "Arsenal Out Of Danger From Bush Fire Menace: Action Taken None Too Soon; Blaze Within 100 Feet of Amatol Buildings"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-02-04__philadelphia-inquirer__p17__loading-to-continue-at-amatol.txt ===
Page Content:
Shell Loading To Continue
1919-02-03
According to Superintendent Reed, of the Atlantic Loading Company, work will be continued at the Amatol plant until May, at least. This means that shells will be loaded, but that little extra construction work will be done until further orders.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1919-02-04
  page: p17
  title: Shell Loading To Continue
  subtitles: []
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: HAMMONTON, N. J., Feb. 3.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-02-04__philadelphia-inquirer__p17__loading-to-continue-at-amatol.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1919-02-04, p17, "Shell Loading To Continue"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-01-12__philadelphia-inquirer__p9__work-at-plants-halt.txt ===
Page Content:
Atlantic City Notes
1919-01-11
All construction work on the shell loading plants of the Bethlehem Steel Company, at Belcoville, and the Atlantic Loading Company, at Amatol, came to a sudden standstill today, following the receipt of orders to that effect received late last night from Washington. Nearly two thousand men were suddenly thrown out of employment at the two plants when they appeared for work this morning. 

The Allied Building Trades’ Protective Association perfected permanent organization at a meeting last night. Its first official action was the passing of a resolution disapproving of the demand of striking mechanics for an increase in wages from $5 to $7 a day. W. E. Soper was elected president at this meeting. Other officers are: Vice-president, Samuel Guss; secretary, W. H. Hannum; treasurer, Mr. Philip Hannum. 

It developed today that the city has overlooked the penalties of bills for street and sidewalk openings which it has the power to exact by law, since 1907. Three excavating contractors are indebted to the city for penalties aggregating $500, and other thousands were uncollected from special tax penalties on water and sewer bills. These penalties were wiped out by successive purchasers of the various properties.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1919-01-12
  page: p9
  title: Atlantic City Notes
  subtitles: []
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: ATLANTIC CITY, Jan. 11.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-01-12__philadelphia-inquirer__p9__work-at-plants-halt.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1919-01-12, p9, "Atlantic City Notes"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-02-15__philadelphia-inquirer__p3__false-alarm-over-bomb-scare.txt ===
Page Content:
Only Piece Of Lead Pipe Tied To String
1919-02-14
The scare at the Belleville munitions loading plant yesterday over the discovery of an alleged bomb, after investigation today, showed that the “bomb” was a piece of discarded lead pipe to which boys had attached a piece of rope. The rope was the “fuse” in the imagination of the discoverers, and an alarm was sent out which resulted in doubling the guards at both the Belleville plant and the loading plant at Amatol. The employees were alarmed and the women employees were escorted from the works to the train by guards.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1919-02-15
  page: p3
  title: Only Piece Of Lead Pipe Tied To String
  subtitles: []
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: ATLANTIC CITY, N. J., Feb. 14.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-02-15__philadelphia-inquirer__p3__false-alarm-over-bomb-scare.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1919-02-15, p3, "Only Piece Of Lead Pipe Tied To String"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-04-29__philadelphia-inquirer__p1__plants-to-be-maintained.txt ===
Page Content:
Frankford Arsenal Will Be Equipped For Million Rounds Daily
Small Arms Ammunition of All Types, and Artillery Parts to Be Made
1919-04-28
Frankford Arsenal, at Philadelphia, is to be equipped with the necessary machinery sufficient for the manufacture of one million rounds of small arms ammunition of all types per day of eight hours. 

Twelve other plants will also be enlarged and put into working order. This announcement was made by Acting Secretary of War Crowell. 

The “set up” at Frankford Arsenal will be operated only on a small scale to make such small quantities of ammunition and also to erect additional fabricated government-owned buildings at that place. In this way a plant will be installed for the manufacture, in relatively small quantities, of all metal components for artillery ammunition from one-pounder to 240 millimeter, inclusive.

Under the plans contemplated it is intended that the plant at the Frankford Arsenal will manufacture a considerable portion of the peacetime requirements. Secretary Crowell said the machinery to be installed will be carefully selected from the large amount of the most modern government-owned machinery now in private plants. 

A number of these production plants under the plans formulated will not be operated, but will be held as “standby” plants, the government arsenals being looked to for peace manufacture and for the manufacture of new types of artillery material which may be developed as a result of the experience gained during the war. 

In connection with the development at Frankford Arsenal much of the present equipment, which is old, badly worn and not of the latest design, will be removed and replaced with production machinery of the latest type. Other features of the policy announced today include plans for future operations at Amatol Arsenal, located about half way between Philadelphia and Atlantic City, and Tullytown Arsenal, near Trenton, N.J. Amatol Arsenal will be held in “stand-by” condition for the loading of smokeless powder into repelling charges. 

Other arsenals definitely decided upon for the peacetime program include Midland plant at Edgewood, Md.; Rock Island, Ill.; Watervliet, N.Y.; Watertown, Mass.; Old Hickory, Tenn.; Rochester, N.Y.; Erie, Pa.; Charleston shell machining plant; Madison, Wis., and Springfield, Mass. (small arms plant).
East Springfield, Mass., and Detroit. This program is said to be within appropriations and legislation already authorizes the necessary expenditures.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1919-04-29
  page: p1
  title: Frankford Arsenal Will Be Equipped For Million Rounds Daily
  subtitles: ['Small Arms Ammunition of All Types, and Artillery Parts to Be Made']
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: WASHINGTON, April 28.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-04-29__philadelphia-inquirer__p1__plants-to-be-maintained.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1919-04-29, p1, "Frankford Arsenal Will Be Equipped For Million Rounds Daily: Small Arms Ammunition of All Types, and Artillery Parts to Be Made"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-02-20__philadelphia-inquirer__p9__amatol-to-be-largest-arsenal.txt ===
Page Content:
Amatol To Be Largest Arsenal
1919-02-19
Major Jacob Buist, in charge of the soldiers at the Belleville and Amatol munitions plants, said today that the latter plant would be the largest government arsenal in the United States. He said that there was some talk of abandoning the Frankford arsenal, but that this step would not be taken.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1919-02-20
  page: p9
  title: Amatol To Be Largest Arsenal
  subtitles: []
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: ATLANTIC CITY, Feb. 19.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-02-20__philadelphia-inquirer__p9__amatol-to-be-largest-arsenal.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1919-02-20, p9, "Amatol To Be Largest Arsenal"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-12-08__philadelphia-inquirer__p2__some-activity-at-plants.txt ===
Page Content:
Rushing Powder Making In New Jersey Mills
Agents Seek Former Employees—Offer War-time Wages
1919-12-07
The critical Mexican situation is said to be behind a sudden speeding up in the work at the two big mainland munition plants, one at Belleville, near May’s Landing, and the other at Amatol, near Hammonton, reported here today by agents who have been seeking out former employees of the two establishments and offering them war-time wages to go back to their old jobs. 

Both plants, in which the government invested millions of dollars, were turned into storage arsenals with the cessation of hostilities and only a nominal force was kept on the reservations. Vast quantities of munitions and other war material have been brought there from other arsenals since shipments stopped overseas and yesterday came orders to ship these to various distributing centers south and west. Men who had held down executive jobs were first asked to return and then a call went forth for gangs of men. Over 200 have been signed up at the two plants. The work is to last for two months, when it is said the two plants will be shut down and the government will make its lease on the grounds. Steel interests are said to be seeking the properties.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1919-12-08
  page: p2
  title: Rushing Powder Making In New Jersey Mills
  subtitles: ['Agents Seek Former Employees—Offer War-time Wages']
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: ATLANTIC CITY, Dec. 7.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-12-08__philadelphia-inquirer__p2__some-activity-at-plants.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1919-12-08, p2, "Rushing Powder Making In New Jersey Mills: Agents Seek Former Employees—Offer War-time Wages"

=== File: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-12-18__philadelphia-inquirer__p5__auction-at-amatol.txt ===
Page Content:
Auction At Amatol
All War Supplies Ordered Sold by Government
1919-12-17
The War Department has authorized the sale at auction of the goods in the munitions plant at Amatol. The sales are to be conducted on Tuesdays and Thursdays. Everything on the premises will be included. 

Food by the ton, automobiles; some slightly used blankets, beds, cots, office furniture, kitchen equipment and office supplies go under the hammer. The buildings on the ground are later to be auctioned, and it is learned they will be sold to individuals. The date has not as yet been officially confirmed.

Metadata:
  source_type: newspaper
  source_id: philadelphia-inquirer
  source_name: Philadelphia Inquirer
  date: 1919-12-18
  page: p5
  title: Auction At Amatol
  subtitles: ['All War Supplies Ordered Sold by Government']
  attribution: Special to The Inquirer.
  city_date: ATLANTIC CITY, Dec. 17.
  file_path: amatol/newspapers/1919/1919-12-18__philadelphia-inquirer__p5__auction-at-amatol.txt
  citation: Philadelphia Inquirer, 1919-12-18, p5, "Auction At Amatol: All War Supplies Ordered Sold by Government"

=== File: amatol/books/iron_age/p483__big-buying-to-come.txt ===
Page Content:
Big Buying To Come

Big Buying To Come: New York
The Atlantic Loading Co., 71 Broadway, New York, is planning the erection of a works near Whiting's Station, N. J., to be used exclusively, it is reported, for the manufacture of ammunition for the Government. It was recently planned to locate the plant near Brown's Mills, in the vicinity of Camp Dix, but owing to water supply conditions it has been decided to change the site.

Metadata:
  source_type: book
  source_id: iron_age
  source_name: Iron Age Vol. CI
  title: Iron Age Vol. CI
  author: None
  year: 1918
  date: 1918
  pages: p483
  section: Big Buying To Come
  file_path: amatol/books/iron_age/p483__big-buying-to-come.txt
  citation: Iron Age Vol. CI, 1918, p. 483, Big Buying To Come: New York

=== File: amatol/books/amatol_book/p025-027__organization.txt ===
Page Content:
Organization

ORGANIZATION
"With any large undertaking the keynote to success is organization," and the efficiency of an organization depends upon the correct division of the work in hand among several departments and the proper co-ordination of those departments one with another. In the Amatol project organization was particularly vital because of the rapidity with which the work had to be done and of the many new problems presented.

The very nature of the work required an organization of experts. These were drafted from going concerns engaged in large construction and financial enterprises. Loading shell with high explosives is a hazardous undertaking, and the men who formed the Atlantic Loading Company realized this. They summoned to their aid only men of broad experience along similar lines who had proven their fitness in successful work elsewhere. In an incredibly short time a suitable organization was mapped out and the necessary specialists were recruited to head the several departments.

OFFICERS
O. J. Salisbury, President & General Manager
J. D. Evans, Vice President & Operating Manager
C. E. Groesbeck, Vice President
G. E. Claflin, Vice President
A. E. Smith, Secretary-Treasurer

DIRECTORS
O. J. Salisbury
J. D. Evans, President, Evans Engineering Corporation
C. E. Groesbeck, Vice President, Electric Bond & Share Company
E. K. Hall, Vice President, Electric Bond & Share Company
G. E. Claflin, Vice President, Electric Bond & Share Company

Simplicity and effectiveness marked the division of the work into departments, each aligned with its function. The staff was as follows:

OPERATING MANAGER'S DEPARTMENT
Assistant Operating Manager: 1
Chief Clerk: 1
Stenographers: 5
Clerks: 5

ENGINEERING
Chief Engineer: 1
Assistant Chief Engineer: 1
Consulting Engineers: 2
Resident Engineer: 1
Assistants to Chief Engineer: 3
Sanitary and Water Supply Engineer: 1
Mechanical Engineer: 1
Electrical Engineer: 1
Material Engineer: 1
Development Engineer: 1
Civil and Structural Engineer: 1
Consulting Architect: 1
Architect: 1
Cost Engineer: 1
Chief Chemist: 1
Assistant Chemists: 3
Engineers and Draftsmen: 7
Field Men (Instruments, Rodmen, etc.): 65
Clerks, Stenographers, etc.: 9

CONSTRUCTION
General Construction Superintendent: 1
Assistant General Construction Superintendent: 1
Construction Engineers: 10
Foremen and Sub-Foremen: 54
Stenographers, Clerks, etc.: 2

The Company had about 5,500 men on construction work, including all crafts, such as carpenters, plumbers, electricians, plasterers, lathe workers, machinists, boiler makers, painters, teamsters, pipe fitters, riggers, tinsmiths, cement worker, and laborers. In addition, there were about 1,800 enlisted men engaged a portion of the time.

PLANT OPERATION
Works Manager: 1
Assistant Works Managers: 2
General Superintendent: 1
Chief of Police: 1
Superintendents: 4
Foremen and Supervisors: 26

There are also about 1,000 operatives working in the plant, including skilled mechanics of all classes, as well as laborers, both male and female. About 2,000 enlisted men were also detailed to plant operation at various times.

ACCOUNTING
Treasurer: 1
Chief Accountant: 1
Plant Auditor: 1
Town Auditor: 1
Accountants, Bookkeepers, etc.: 75
Clerks, Stenographers, etc.: 200
Paymaster: 1
Payroll Clerks: 64
Time Checkers: 112

INDUSTRIAL SERVICE
Superintendent: 1
Garage Manager: 1
Railway Superintendent: 1
Chauffeurs: 15
Locomotive Engineers: 15
Locomotive Firemen: 15
Locomotive Brakemen: 15
Automobile Mechanics: 10
Chief of Police: 1
Captains: 2
Lieutenants: 4
Guards: 500

There are about 95 passenger automobiles, besides a large number of auto trucks, horses, wagons, etc.

Stenographers, Clerks, etc.: 19

TOWN
Town Manager: 1
Renting Agent: 1
Town Superintendent: 1
Commissary Superintendent: 1
Stenographers, Clerks, etc.: 24
Commissary Heads: 3
Cooks: 39
Assistant Cooks and Kitchen Help: 247
Waitresses: 18
Between 15,000 and 20,000 meals are prepared and served daily.

HOSPITAL
Physicians: 6
Orderlies and Nurses: 13
Clerks: 1

PURCHASING
Purchasing Agent: 1
Assistant Purchasing Agent: 1
Buyers: 10
Clerks and Stenographers: 21
Expeditors: 16

MALE EMPLOYMENT
Employment Superintendent: 1
Employment Agents: 2
Clerks, Stenographers, etc.: 15

FEMALE EMPLOYMENT AND WELFARE
Superintendent: 1
Assistants: 3
Housekeepers, Matrons, etc.: 30

The above classification gives the framework of the organization and indicated the distribution of the work. It does not, however, and in the nature of things could not, disclose the character of the problems faced by the several departments and successfully evolved. It is impossible to describe these in detail, but a few illustrations will give the reader a better idea of the difficulties which were met and surmounted. 

Construction naturally was the first thing on the programme. In all construction the two main factors are labor and materials. Even in normal times these factors are difficult problems in any large undertaking. In the early part of the year 1918, with the whole country absorbed in war work and with normal conditions completely upset, they presented ten-fold more difficulties. To get labor with which to build its plant and town the Company was compelled to go into a labor market booming from unprecedented demand and to bid against high wages in all industries. But the problem was solved by making the work attractive and providing the best living and housing conditions for the workers.

To get the materials with which to build was no less difficult. Those were the days of unlimited demand and undeveloped supplies, of congested freight carrying facilities and Government priority orders for shipments. It was easy to order supplies, but quite another matter to get them. The purchasing department of the Company rose to the emergency by organizing a special expediting division. This division dispatched men to various seats of supply, such as the lumber mills of the South, and these men followed the orders placed by the Company until the materials were turned out and shipped. Other men experienced in freight shipping were stationed at junction points to set shipments straight and give advance notice of their coming. This expediting service brought results, and at the high point of operations the Company had no less than 700 cars of material in transit at one time. Simultaneously the construction was moving steadily and uninterruptedly.

Purchase of supplies necessarily was made on a vast scale to meet the demands of these several departments, totaling many millions of dollars during the period of eight months. The purchasing department, in order to do this work, had a force of 300 persons engaged at one time. These included the office in Philadelphia, where purchases were made, and that at Amatol, where the traffic and the routing of shipments and invoices were handled.

New problems also confronted the financial and accounting department. As the Company was acting as agent of the Government it was necessary for the treasurer’s office to make the complex accounting and auditing systems synchronize with those of the Government. This was successfully done and the payrolls and disbursements of funds were made to conform with Government requirements. It was accomplished by a system of invoice accounting, checking materials and the final approval and payment of invoices through the Government disbursing office. All records of such disbursements were carried into the Company’s field account and corresponded exactly with the records of the Government’s accounting division. Payroll disbursements also were made in accordance with Government requirements as to checking of time, distribution of labor costs and proper disbursement of funds. No question as to payrolls ever arose between the Company and the Government—a fact in which the Company may feel a degree of pride. Accounting methods also were made to fit the special requirements of the plant and town operations.

In every other department similar problems were presented and successfully solved, and they would not have been possible had it not been for the character of the personnel, so admirably fitted for the work. In the construction department the Company has had in its service some of the best men known to organizations having wide experience on many of the largest pieces of construction throughout the country.

On its engineering staff it had men with special experience in hydro-electric and other extensive developments. These men were thoroughly familiar with all kinds of material, all phases of construction work and had behind them command data collected through years of important development work. Associated with them as consultants were Clinton D. Mackenzie, Consulting Architect, and Clyde Potts, Consulting Engineer on sewerage and water.

The work of the Women’s Department went on and women, was made very difficult, because of the shortage incident to the demands made upon them by the abnormal war industrial activities. Admirable results were obtained, particularly by the Superintendent of Women to whom was entrusted the direct direction of the organizations for recreational and communal life, as well as the employment and housing of women.

Metadata:
  source_type: book
  source_id: amatol_book
  source_name: Amatol Book
  title: Amatol Book
  author: None
  year: 1918
  date: 1918
  pages: p025-027
  section: Organization
  file_path: amatol/books/amatol_book/p025-027__organization.txt
  citation: Amatol Book, 1918, pp. 025–027, Organization

=== File: amatol/books/amatol_book/p007__introduction.txt ===
Page Content:
Introduction

INTRODUCTION
BY JAMES BLAINE WALKER
Secretary Public Service Commission, 1st Dist. New York; Author of "Fifty Years of Rapid Transit," etc.

FOR MANY YEARS travelers on the Pennsylvania Railroad, between Philadelphia and Atlantic City, have viewed from the car windows apparently interminable stretches of flat, sandy country covered with a thick growth of scrub oak, small pine trees and a dense undergrowth of brush. Many have speculated as to what practical use this great stretch of land, useless in its present state for agricultural purposes and yet most advantageously located, could be devoted. Quite unexpectedly the necessities of war brought a large portion of it into practical use. The Atlantic Loading Company, a corporation formed in New York City, entered into a contract with the Government to build and operate a shell loading plant as the agent of the Government. The officers of the company immediately began looking for a site for the contemplated plant, and this section of New Jersey attracted their attention. It was comparatively isolated and yet traversed by important railroad lines which afforded ample transportation facilities for men and materials. The soil was easily worked and there was available a subterranean supply of excellent water readily tapped by driving wells. The moderate, healthful and equable climate was also suitable for a large industrial community.

Early in the year 1918 the Company acquired for the Government a tract of 6000 acres of this land lying near the town of Hammonton, New Jersey. The Company began work on March 4th, 1918, and within a few months had cleared the land, laid out and built a new town and an enormous plant, peopled the former with workmen and equipped the latter with machinery and begun the loading of shell. The transformation of the wilderness into a hive of industry within such a short time was one of the many war-time marvels of American engineering achievement. The history of the work is a story of the accomplishment of brain power, engineering talent and the genius of American business organization, which reflects the highest credit upon all concerned.

The leaders in the formation of the Atlantic Loading Company were O. J. Salisbury, of Salt Lake City, Utah, J. D. Evans, of the Evans Engineering Corporation, and the Electric Bond and Share Company, of New York, both of whom have had extensive experience in the financing and construction of large works. The new Company was formed by taking the pick of men from several large organizations, including that of the Electric Bond and Share Company, so that each of its men was made up of experts. This method of selecting suitable men was followed throughout the organization, the financial and administrative chiefs as well as the engineers being picked men.

The new organization having in its personnel many of the pioneers in the quantity loading of high explosive shell, embodied in its plant at Amatol the best, most economical and safest methods which could be devised for facilitating and speeding up production. Some of these methods were developed by the Company's own engineers: the power belt conveyor system, which permits the continuous movement of shell through the various operations within the central loading building, is one feature. The men placed in charge of operating the plant thus brought to the work at Amatol the skill necessary to successful operation. The speed with which the call of the Government was met, the co-ordination of plant and men and the results obtained which provided for every contingency stand out as prominent features of the work.

In the following pages Mr. Hammel, the Company's Chief Engineer, and a Member of the American Society of Civil Engineers, has creditably presented an all-too-brief history of this great undertaking, which includes an interesting description of the plant and the town, their construction, operation, capacity, and the efficient organization which made them possible. It is eminently fitting that a permanent record should be made of the achievements of the Company, which may well be proud of its work, for success never attended a larger undertaking initiated and carried through in such a short time and in the face of so many difficulties.

Amatol, New Jersey
January, 1919

Metadata:
  source_type: book
  source_id: amatol_book
  source_name: Amatol Book
  title: Amatol Book
  author: None
  year: 1918
  date: 1918
  pages: p007
  section: Introduction
  file_path: amatol/books/amatol_book/p007__introduction.txt
  citation: Amatol Book, 1918, p. 007, Introduction

=== File: amatol/books/amatol_book/p135-136__plant-operation.txt ===
Page Content:
Plant Operation

PLANT OPERATION
In mountainous countries where precious metal ores are milled or smelted at the mines the works are built if possible on the side of a hill, so that the ore enters at the top and descends by the aid of gravity until it reaches the last process at the bottom. A similar plan to minimize the handling of shell was devised by the Atlantic Loading Company and put into successful use at the Amatol works. Instead of the force of gravity, power belt conveyors are used, and these conveyors carry the shell from the receiving building through all successive processes until they are delivered, finished at the end of the unit for shipment. The conveyors are also great time savers and are one of the principal factors for speedy production. They consist of endless belts riding on fixed rollers in narrow tramways, laid on the floors or on the level of the working benches. The total length of the conveyor lines is 12 miles.

Shell Journey on the Conveyor
The journey of a shell along the conveyor line in any of the units is an interesting demonstration of the time and labor-saving nature of the device. Whether the shell be large or small, it is placed lengthwise on the conveyor belt and moves along at a constant speed to the next process. When it reaches the proper point a workman stationed there simply rolls it off the belt on the bench. At practically no time is it necessary to lift the shell at all, the workman rolling it along flat as he does his task to another workman, who does his particular job and either passes it along by rolling or rolls it back on the conveyor, which carries it to the next process. In the case of large, heavy shell this method not only saves time, but a vast amount of physical exertion.

Initial Shell Preparation
In the receiving building the shells are received, cleaned and shellaced. Empty shell storage space is here provided for 15 to 20 days' production. When received at the plant the shell have their copper or metal shipping gags screwed in the nose, and the first process is the removal of these plugs. This is a machine operation. The remover heads are placed at a revolving shaft, and the men engage the plug and unscrew it.

Sequential Processing
From the receiving building the shell are carried forward to each successive stage on conveyor lines, which finally converge in the packing and shipping building.

Amatol, which is the main charge pressed into the shell (unless straight trinitrotoluol (T.N.T.) or a 50/50 mix is used) contains 80% ammonium nitrate and 20% T.N.T.

Mixing Ammonium Nitrate and T.N.T.
The ammonium nitrate is crushed and dried before mixing. The T.N.T. is melted and the two are mixed in the kettle room. The kettles have hot water jackets, heated by a steam coil within the jacket, and each kettle is provided with an agitator. The total charge of a kettle is about 800 pounds, and a melt is obtained every two hours. When a mixture is used the amount of T.N.T. needed is first melted in the kettle and then hot ammonium nitrate is added until a full charge of proper proportions is obtained.

When T.N.T. is poured, the material is drawn off into stirring tubs. Stirring is necessary because of the rapid crystallization of T.N.T. when cooling begins, which might cause exudation in the charge. The material is therefore stirred with wooden paddles to break up the large crystals into smaller crystals and give a more even charge. The stirring tubs are mounted on wheels and move along tracks to the shell. The empty shell dies, before the pouring process, are brought to the pouring house and filled with hot sand to expel the air. The solution is sprayed on the inside shell by a spray nozzle. They are wheeled to the pouring conveyor, passing through a special gate, which also heats the shell and allows them to run automatically into the pouring process. The shells bodies are run into the pouring building on specially heavy conveyors. A rubber tube is placed in the nose of each, through which the charge is poured in small quantities to prevent holes forming in the loading. In the case of 75 mm shells, they need be only one pouring.

When straight T.N.T. is used the method of pouring is slightly different. A short hose, however, is poured into the body of the boulder and then straight T.N.T. is poured to the top of the funnel. This method permits extremely rapid production. The portion of the explosive in the funnel is termed the “pouring head" and the purpose of filling above the shell is merely that the point of extreme crystallization, which takes place rapidly when the explosive is exposed to air, may be above the outside of the shell itself.

To further reduce the possibility of cavitation when 50/50 is poured, a metal wire is thrust into the shell charge just after the pouring, and withdrawn in a few seconds; this having a tendency to make crystallization uniform throughout. Results have shown that this produces a charge of even texture and of the specified density.

After the charge is poured the "pouring head" is removed and re-used later, the use of a 50 per cent. proportion being permissible, provided it is within 48 hours of the original pouring.

The shell now go to the cooling room where they are stored for eight or nine hours until completely cooled. They are then drilled to receive the booster and the thread is thoroughly cleaned to remove all explosive that may have collected. The cavity for the booster is next shellacked to waterproof it in the event that the booster is not placed immediately. This, however, is not necessary if the booster is inserted at once.

The cartridge case is filled with smokeless powder, the latter being weighed with automatic weighing machines. Shell bodies and cartridge cases then go to the assembling building, where they are partly assembled by hand and finally crimped together in the assembling and crimping machine. Gauging and weighing come next in the operation of making the shell ready for the booster. The shell is now to go to the building where the booster, which detonates the charge, is placed in the cavity drilled for it. The booster is a steel case charged with tetryl. The shell now go by conveyor to the packing shed, and thence to the shipping building.

An important intermediate stage is the stenciling of the shell, so that the gunner may know by the marking in what zone it will fall. Throughout the process of handling the shells, Government inspectors keep watch on all operations. It is the purpose that the progress of the shell throughout the plant shall be continuous, both for speed in expediting the work and, so far as possible, storage at any of the various stages.

While the pressure of war needs was on, it was necessary to load amatol rather than straight T.N.T. Owing to the impossibility of obtaining T.N.T. in sufficient quantities the mix with ammonium nitrate was at the time imperative. The mix has as high explosive power as T.N.T., the one disadvantage of using it being that ammonium nitrate absorbs moisture rapidly, and in time deteriorates. The life of the shell loaded with straight T.N.T. is indefinite—certainly 25 years—while the condition of shell loaded with amatol would be uncertain after perhaps five years. In loading, every possible precaution, such as shellacing, is necessary to exclude moisture when amatol is used. The plant loads straight T.N.T. when adequate supply is obtainable.

As it leaves the plant the shell is complete, except for the placing of the fuse, an operation which is done at the battlefront.

In the matter of protection, the plant has been covered in many respects beyond the usual means of care to lessen risk. The operating buildings are practically all steel-frame with composite lath and cement construction or corrugated metal sides. Hydrants are placed inside and outside the building in such position that all parts can be covered with water. One hundred feet of hose is provided for each outside hydrant. Hose racks are placed in the buildings at short intervals and fire buckets 20 feet apart. A water line points out all hydrants and the location of hose, and a water line is carried completely around the plant. There is a constant system of inspection of buckets and apparatus.

In the matter of cleanliness and sanitation generally the plant operation in the matter of cleanliness was none too moderate. Operating rooms were thoroughly and rigidly inspected by a special force whose duty it was: the purpose being not to let it pile up and then dispose of it, but actually to prevent accumulation. Buildings where T.N.T. is poured were kept under constant cleaning and are flushed out with steam daily. Exhaust apparatus removes dust from the atmosphere.

A safety patrol was maintained whose duty it was not only to take care of waste, but to remove any operative whose health became impaired.

Personal cleanliness among operatives was required by constant watchfulness on the part of nurses and Government inspectors. The nurses and matron in charge of T.N.T. treated dust as a deadly poison and took care of it as such. Women operatives working on T.N.T. Besides this the matron and physicians took care of hygiene, weeding out unfit workers. Men, as well as women, were examined. Medical expert make frequent inspections not only to supervise matters of hygiene, but to remove any operative whose health becomes impaired.

Metadata:
  source_type: book
  source_id: amatol_book
  source_name: Amatol Book
  title: Amatol Book
  author: None
  year: 1918
  date: 1918
  pages: p135-136
  section: Plant Operation
  file_path: amatol/books/amatol_book/p135-136__plant-operation.txt
  citation: Amatol Book, 1918, pp. 135–136, Plant Operation

=== File: amatol/books/amatol_book/p253-254__auxiliary-operations.txt ===
Page Content:
Auxiliary Operations

AUXILIARY OPERATIONS
The auxiliary operations—those distinct from both town management and plant operations, or having to do with the two jointly—were peculiarly complex. The need for extreme speed as well as other considerations raised unique problems to be solved. An auxiliary operation is the electrical power system, which is one of the many notable features of the undertaking. The main electrical system of the plant and town consists of a three-phase, 60 cycle, 66,000-volt transmission line, which extends almost thirty miles from the power house of the Atlantic City Electric Company. This is carried on wooden poles. The crossing over the bay at Atlantic City is carried by two steel towers 1000 ft. apart.

There are two transformer banks, one at the Atlantic City and the other near Amatol, each consisting of three 4,500-kva. oil insulated, water cooled units, electrolytic lightning arresters with pole top air break switches on the 66,000-volt line and oil switches on the low tension line.

The local distribution at both the plantsite and Amatol is 4,000 volt, with 2,300 volt transformers, star connected. Motors are 440 and 220 volt, lighting 220/110 volt three wire. This local distribution is controlled through incoming and outgoing oil switches at the 500-kw. steam-electric station and the distribution lines are further protected by sectionalizing pole-top oil switches, so located and connected as to afford, selective-service to all sections of the plant, magazine and storage areas. In every case the area can be supplied by at least two feeders and in some cases by three.

The plant is guarded at night by a protective fence lighting system, which extends around the loading, the storage and the magazine sections, with a total length of nine miles, divided into twenty-six separate sections. Each section is on a selective feeder, with a searchlight that sweeps behind two sections about 1,200 feet apart. These searchlights are sweeped by current from either of the two adjacent sections, giving very wide selective service. The lights have a range of about 2,000 feet. Armed guards are stationed at every section.

For reserve service there is a 500-kw. 2,300 volt generating station within the plant area. The generating units are two 250-kw., 2,300 volt generators, direct connected to compound reciprocating steam engines.

In addition to this station there is a second reserve station of 125-kw. at the townsite. Both this and the 500-kw. station are connected through steam mains to the nearby steam heating boilers, so that electric service can be given at short notice.

Water and sewerage systems are complete in every detail. Driven wells are the source of the water supply. The wells range in depth from 120 to 335 feet and will yield 1,750,000 gallons per twenty-four hours. At the present time five of the wells are finished, giving a total of 1,350,000 gallons per twenty-four hours.

The air-lift system is employed to raise the water to the ground level where it is carried by collecting lines to a receiving basin. The basin is of 54,000 gallons’ capacity. It receives all the water from the wells and acts as a reservoir from which the pumps lift the water to town and plant. The basin is completely constructed of timber, concrete covered and partially buried in the ground. Compressed air is furnished for the air-lift pumps by four Chicago pneumatic compressors, two high pressure and two low pressure. They are in duplicate; one of each set supplies enough air to lift from the wells approximately 1,750,000 gallons of water per twenty-four hours. They are electrically driven and automatically controlled by the pressure of the water in the receiving basin. The compressed air is carried to the covered wells by underground air piping which involves 1800 feet of pipe, the sizes varying from two to five inches. Each well with its air-lift pump is to be covered with a well house. Five wells are fitted with Weber air-lift pumps.

Three Worthington triplex force pumps lift the water from the receiving basin to the elevated tanks in town and plant. Each pump, electrically driven, has a capacity of 350 gallons of water per minute, or a total capacity of a million and one half gallons per twenty-four hours.

The pumps are automatically controlled to cut out when the pressure tanks are full and to resume duty when the water in the tanks recedes to a certain level.

There is one tank at the townsite mounted on 100-ft. steel tower; six at the plantsite of the same size and height as the town tank, except the two in the rear of the 6-inch 50/50 plant, which are on 110-ft. steel towers. Each of these tanks is of 50,000 gallons' capacity. There are also three small wooden tanks, size 10 × 10 feet, mounted on frame towers located at Camp Doring, Magnolia Camp and near Heating Plant No. 1. There are also driven wells varying in depth from 130 to 150 feet at these locations.

The town water supply mains are 10-inch, 8-inch, 6-inch and 4-inch Universal cast-iron pipe, totaling 9 miles in length. In the plant there are 20 miles of mains. The hydrants in the town are what are known as the Corey and the Darling, solid stress, frost-proof, non-freezing types, with two 2½-inch independent hose nozzles and one steamer connection. At the plant the Darling type is used exclusively.

The town is served by a complete and modern sewerage system and disposal works. An 18-inch and a 15-inch trunk sewer carry all the sewage collected by the laterals from the town to the septic tanks. From the septic tanks the effluent is piped to sand filters, whence in a purified state it eventually finds its way to tide-water.

The septic tanks are three in number, each 125 feet long and 12 feet wide, with an effective depth of 9 feet and of 101,250 gallons’ capacity. The purpose of the septic tanks is to settle out and to decompose the solid matter in the sewage.

Before the sewage is run out upon the sand filter beds it is collected and retained in a dosing tank. This tank is of 30,000 gallons’ capacity and when full is automatically released and the dose run out upon one of the beds. The other beds are dosed in turn and the cycle repeated.

The sand filter beds are eight in number, comprising 3½ acres of filtering sand. The effluent is distributed upon the beds by wooden troughs. It filters through 2½ feet of sand and is caught by under drains. These empty into an 18-inch out-fall sewer, which carries away the purified effluent.

Included among the major auxiliary operations also is the Amatol Railroad, which will have 50 miles of standard gauge railroad track. It has 10 locomotives and 30 passenger cars. When the railroad was started it was virtually impossible to obtain passenger cars to carry workmen between town and plant. Some of the cars are street railway cars obtained in Chicago and remade for their present use.

The conduct of automobile and truck transportation, stables for over 500 horses, coal storage, telephone system, army barracks, and various other activities are also included among auxiliary operations. These have all been organized and conducted with the same thoroughness as the operation of the plant and the administration of the town.

Metadata:
  source_type: book
  source_id: amatol_book
  source_name: Amatol Book
  title: Amatol Book
  author: None
  year: 1918
  date: 1918
  pages: p253-254
  section: Auxiliary Operations
  file_path: amatol/books/amatol_book/p253-254__auxiliary-operations.txt
  citation: Amatol Book, 1918, pp. 253–254, Auxiliary Operations

=== File: amatol/books/amatol_book/p061-062__the-plant.txt ===
Page Content:
The Plant

THE PLANT
The Atlantic Loading Company's plant was designed to load more than 25 percent of the entire amount of shell that the Ordnance Department had placed orders for loading, assembling, and packing. It is organized to produce shell of all types, it is believed, more rapidly and with greater economy than any other plant of its kind in the United States. The men associated in this project have produced all told over 9,000,000 rounds of ammunition of various types.

Briefly, the operations of the plant consist of loading, assembling and packing fixed ammunition. The shell is loaded with trinitrotoluol (T.N.T.), or T.N.T. and ammonium nitrate, the cartridge cases are filled with smokeless powder and the booster, which finally detonates the main charge, is placed in the nose of the shell.

To carry through these operations with the least possible danger and with the speed required by needs of war the most perfect organization, methods and equipment were required, and the record production of the plant is clear proof that this was fully accomplished.

The loading plant is as follows:
75 mm/m: 3 units
4.7-inch: 1 unit
155 mm/m: 50/50 (T.N.T. and ammonium nitrate): 2 units
155 mm/m: 80/20 (80% ammonium nitrate, 20% T.N.T.): 3 units
8-inch (and larger): 3 units
Booster: 1 unit
Rifle grenade: 1 unit
Hand grenade: 1 unit
Total capacity: 60,000 shell (all sizes) and 125,000 small parts, such as boosters and grenades per day.
Shortly after the plant began producing the 4.7-inch unit, it was extended to loading of Mark III and Mark I drop bombs.

DATA ON HIGH EXPLOSIVE SHELL
Size	Weight Empty	Charge	Weight Loaded	Length
3 in.	11.73 lbs.	1.65 lbs	15.00 lbs	11.49 in
75 mm A.A.	10.24	1.67	15.00	10.70
75 mm M.I	10.24	1.65	15.00	10.79
75 mm M.XI	12.00	0.77	12.18	11.56
75 mm M.XII	13.66	0.87	14.56	13.62
75 mm M.XIII	14.22	0.85	14.85	13.62
4.7 in. M.I	33.56	6.25	39.81	17.63
6-in. M.I	72.65	13.67	86.32	22.71
155 mm M.XIV	79.35	13.12	95.00	22.70
155 mm M.XVII	79.35	13.67	95.00	22.70
155 mm M.XVIII	79.35	13.17	95.00	22.70
155 mm M.XIX	79.35	13.17	95.00	22.70
8-in. M.I	199.48	49.42	250.00	29.06
8-in. M.II	199.48	49.42	250.00	27.94
240 mm M.I	429.02	86.32	510.00	44.29

EXPLOSIVES REQUIRED FOR 24-HOUR DAY
Plant	Capacity (No. of Shells)	Shell Type	Charge (lbs)	Total T.N.T. (lbs)	Ammon. Nitrate	Misc.
75 mm	30,000	T.N.T.	0.75	97,500		
4.7 in.	10,000	50/50	6.04	30,450	30,450	
155 mm 50/50	6,000	50/50	7.75	46,500	46,500	
8-in. 80/20	3,000	80/20	49.67	29,802	119,208	
Booster	125,000			26,904		107,616
Hand Grenade	50,000			Tetryl		6,150 lbs
Rifle Grenade	20,000			Nitro-starch		6,750 lbs
2,600 lbs

Note:

The first unit placed in operation was for the loading of 75 mm shell, operational four months after ground was broken.

Within 30 days thereafter, the unit could have reached a production of 16,000 shell of this type in a day of eight hours. However, on account of Government requirements, this unit was compelled to load both 75 mm shell and aerial drop bombs. An index of the flexibility of the layout was the development of the extruding machine for loading drop bombs with Amatol in the 75 mm plant.

The next unit to start operations was the booster plant; and following this, the 4.7-inch plant.

One of the methods worked out by the organization that has resulted in greater safety in shell production is in the construction of the kettle in which trinitrotoluol is melted. Heretofore, the kettles were steam jacketed and should the pressure reducing valves fail the temperature of the T.N.T., or the 50/50 mix, would reach a dangerous point liable to cause explosion. In the construction used by the Atlantic Loading Company the kettles are water jacketed; that is, the steam pipes are surrounded with water between the inner and outer casings of the double kettle with a vent to the air. It is therefore impossible for the temperature of the mix to become higher than boiling water, and this is well below the danger point of high explosive temperature.

The Company's engineers were the first to use belt conveyors in the production of shell. To turn out shell in large quantity and economically this operation must be one continuous process from the receiving room to the final stage. The conveyors carry the shell continuously from the first stage to the last with a resultant maximum economy of time and labor. No other plant has used the same system of loading as that worked out by the Atlantic Loading Company.

The general plant layout shows the division of the operations in separate buildings in such a way that, should fire or explosion start in one building, the other buildings in which the same operations are done, may still continue at work. In all plants the more hazardous operations instead of being localized in a single structure are carried on in either two or three duplicate buildings. With the cross conveyor system, great elasticity in operation is obtainable in emergency. The buildings are separated from each other by a minimum distance of 200 feet.

There are approximately 642 buildings of all classes required in the plant proper. The following list of those in the 75 mm unit indicate the character of the operating buildings:
Receiving, cleaning and shellacking buildings
Pouring and cooling building
Drilling and cleaning building
Assembling building
Packing building
Shipping building
Empty box and container storage
Cartridge case storage building
Smokeless filling building
Ammonium nitrate crushing and drying building
Ammonium nitrate storage building
T.N.T. storage service magazine
Smokeless storage service magazine
Primer magazine
Booster magazine

The producing units have, of course, a full complement of storage buildings, change houses for the changing of clothing of operatives, warehouses, shops, administration, and other buildings.

Metadata:
  source_type: book
  source_id: amatol_book
  source_name: Amatol Book
  title: Amatol Book
  author: None
  year: 1918
  date: 1918
  pages: p061-062
  section: The Plant
  file_path: amatol/books/amatol_book/p061-062__the-plant.txt
  citation: Amatol Book, 1918, pp. 061–062, The Plant

=== File: amatol/books/amatol_book/p179__map-of-the-town-of-amatol.txt ===
Page Content:
Map Of The Town Of Amatol

Map of the Town of Amatol, New Jersey
An example of the art of town planning. With an undeveloped piece of land, it was possible to apply the principles of artistic town design and create units in correct and convenient relation to each other.

Metadata:
  source_type: book
  source_id: amatol_book
  source_name: Amatol Book
  title: Amatol Book
  author: None
  year: 1918
  date: 1918
  pages: p179
  section: Map Of The Town Of Amatol
  file_path: amatol/books/amatol_book/p179__map-of-the-town-of-amatol.txt
  citation: Amatol Book, 1918, p. 179, Map Of The Town Of Amatol

=== File: amatol/books/amatol_book/p014-018__scope-of-the-work.txt ===
Page Content:
Scope Of The Work

SCOPE OF THE WORK

In April, 1917, when the United States declared war on Germany, and began the work of enlarging the Army and Navy and providing for the needed supply of food, clothing and munitions, its greatest task was to provide for the manufacture of munitions. The needed men were here; it only remained to draft and drill them. Food and clothing were being produced; it only remained to stimulate production. But to provide for an ample supply of munitions new factories had to be built and peacetime works transformed into gun and shell producers.

The achievements of 1918 showed how well this work had been done in 1917. Once the lathes and the forges were working it became necessary to supply the high explosives with which to charge the shell they turned out, and to provide extensive machinery for doing the charging. Contracts were made for the production on a vast scale of trinitrotoluol, the destructive explosive used in modern big gun ammunition, and other contracts for the construction of plants for the loading of the shell as fast as the mills turned them out.

Four large shell loading plants were projected and eventually placed in operation, namely, those of the Bethlehem Loading Co., the T. A. Gillespie Loading Co., the DuPont Engineering Co. and the Atlantic Loading Company. Of these the plant of the Atlantic Loading Company is the largest. It is located at Amatol, New Jersey—a town which came into being to house its workers, and is about 25 miles from Atlantic City, adjacent to and north of the Pennsylvania and the Reading railroads. The site consists of a tract of approximately 6,000 acres of land, with its western boundary about six miles east of Hammonton, New Jersey.

The history of the Atlantic Loading Company is a story of organization, construction and production in quick-step time. It entered into a contract with the Ordnance Department of the Government to act as its agent in loading and storing shell, and it conducted its work and enterprise from first to last in accordance with the rules and regulations of that department. It began the work of construction on its plant on March 4, 1918, began operations the following July, and in August loaded its first shell, and in the meantime it also had built the new town of Amatol. An indication of the high speed with which its operations were conducted may be found in the fact that within twenty-four hours after the site was finally determined upon, actual work on clearing the land for the plant was under way.

The enterprise combined two separate and distinct undertakings, either of which in itself would require an organization embracing high skill, initiative and intensive working power. One was the rapid construction of a large shell loading plant, the other the building of a town to provide proper quarters for the thousands of workers whose employment was contemplated. To meet the requirements of the Ordnance Department the plant had to be brought to a producing basis at the earliest day possible, and to do this the town had to be built and made ready to house the workers at the same time.

It was in contemplation of this that the Atlantic Loading Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Maine in December, 1917. The stated purposes of the corporation were: first, to construct and operate a shell loading plant for the production of completed rounds of ammunition and to provide the necessary storage capacity therefor; second, to build a town for the housing of the operatives. The plant was designed to be the largest of its type in the country, providing for the loading of shell of all sizes from 75 mm, to 10-inch drop bombs, depth bombs, rifle grenades, hand grenades and boosters. The charter provisions were very broad, in order to permit the Company to enter into contracts for construction of any and all kinds, such as steam and electric railroads, manufacturing plants, electrical transmission lines, power developments, buildings and bridges.

The Atlantic Loading Company is the tri-party control of O. J. Salisbury, of Salt Lake City, Utah; J. D. Evans, of the Evans Engineering Corporation; and the Electric Bond & Share Company. Both Mr. Salisbury and Mr. Evans were fully equipped for the great undertaking, having had long and varied experience in the financing and creation of extensive industrial developments, mining operations and public utility enterprises. The Electric Bond & Share Company is known as one of the country’s most successful companies engaged in the financing and operation of public utilities.

The first task of these three interests was to create the organization needed for the new work. As it stands to-day, the organization of the Atlantic Loading Company covers all the various phases of its work, including finance, male and female employment, accounting, engineering, purchasing, construction, operating, housing, commissary, medical work, sanitation and welfare. In all of these departments the greatest efficiency has been developed.

At the beginning of March, 1918, the site of the plant was an unbroken tract, mostly wooded, with some acres of swamp. The land was of a kind peculiarly difficult to clear for building construction, owing to the dense, tangled nature of the growth. Nine months later it was covered with a plant which has turned out ammunition of many types in large quantities, including drop bombs and large shell; and in addition a town capable of properly housing over 10,000 people, with the many needed buildings for administration, auxiliary operation, recreation, etc., has been built.

At the outset it was necessary to obtain carpenters and other workmen, lumber, commissary outfits and supplies. Within the first week the first bunkhouse and mess hall were up, housing and feeding an initial force of forty men. From the beginning the work expanded with ever-increasing rapidity, buildings going up almost over night. The speed in construction may be gauged by the fact that, during a period of nine months, the Company constructed an average of about four buildings of various kinds a day, from construction office up to such large structures as loading, administration, mess and dormitory buildings.

Besides the building construction for plant and town there was a great amount of auxiliary construction, consisting in part of about fifty miles of standard gauge railroad track, water supply, sewerage systems, thirty miles of 66,000-volt transmission line and other power systems, telephone and telegraph systems, centralized heating plants and electric-lighting stations. It was because that the rapidity with which the plant was placed under way was in a large measure fundamental to the fact that the living conditions and the town were fundamentally correct. “Speed—simplicity—results” were the watchwords in the construction of plant and town, but nevertheless all structures were substantially built.

Semi-fire-proof construction of stucco and “Composite” metal unit was determined upon; and it is an interesting fact that this durable type of building was successfully used at almost the same cost as ordinary cantonment construction—very little in excess of the cost of wood and, in many cases, cheaper. The use of fabricated steel structures, assembled in panels at the factory, facilitated erection and aided in the “record” completion of the 75 mm plant. Standardized unit “A” frame steel structures were also used. An inspection of the accompanying photographs will indicate the elasticity of this standardized construction. The units being bolted together, the structure can be wrecked and readily converted into a large variety of manufacturing buildings. This steel construction was adopted because of the salvage value of the material.

The fact that stands out most sharply in connection with this vast enterprise is that while the Company has built substantially, it has also built quickly. Precisely what this has meant in physical construction is shown by the concrete figures given in the following statistical table:

These statistics cover the development as planned. The signing of the armistice caused the suspension of construction work and also some result some work for which material was purchased and delivered was not completed. About 90 per cent. of the construction was finished and in addition the actual loading of shell had been carried on for several months.

Loading operations began July 31, 1918.

First shell loaded (75 m. m. and drop bombs) August 3, 1918.

AREAS
Total acreage of reservation: 6,000
Acreage of operating plant: 2,550
Acreage of loading company town: 1,000
Acres cleared in general: 3,680
Acres cleared in town: 1,150
Acres trimmed in town: 255

DISTANCES
Extreme length of plant: 2 miles
Extreme breadth of plant: 2 miles
Extreme length of town: 1.5 miles
Extreme breadth of town: 1 mile
Length of protective fence: 15 miles

WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
Water supply system max capacity: 1,750,000 gals.
Water mains—town: 9 miles
Water mains—plant: 20 miles
Water tanks 50,000 gals.—plant: 6
Water tanks 50,000 gals.—town: 1
Water tanks 10 ft. × 10 ft.—plant: 3
Wells—town: 7
Wells—plant: 3
Sewer mains—town: 11 miles

LIGHT AND POWER SYSTEMS
Steam-electric station—plant: 1
Steam-electric station—town: 1
Lighting and power wire—plant: 200 miles
Lighting and power wire—town: 50 miles
66,000 volt transmission system: 30 miles
(Atlantic City line 23 miles; Mays Landing line 7 miles)
Electric street lights—town: 130
Yard light—plant: 300
Lights for fence protection: 400
Searchlights: 6

HEATING SYSTEMS
Mains—plant: 13 miles
Mains—town: 2 miles
Steam heating stations—plant: 5
Steam heating station—town: 1

RAILROADS
Total ultimate length of track: 50 miles
Locomotives: 10
Passenger coaches: 30

ROADWAYS
Miles of roadway—plant: 18 miles
Miles of roadway—town: 14 miles
Wood walks—plant: 1 mile
Wood walks—town: 4 miles

TELEPHONES
Exchanges: 2
Trunk lines: 10 miles
Telephones—plant and town: 385
Ultimate capacity: 1,300 lines
Wire in plant: 25 miles
Wire in town: 25 miles

STRUCTURES
Floor area in sq. ft.—plant: 2,615,662
Floor area in sq. ft.—town: 778,822
Plant buildings placed end to end would cover: 11 miles
Town buildings placed end to end would cover: 4 miles
Total number of structures: 1,107
Plant structures: 642
Town structures: 465
Loading buildings: 132
Storage buildings and magazines: 159
Administration buildings: 4
Office buildings: 6
Industrial buildings: 9
Hospitals: 7
Recreation centres: 2
Mess halls: 12
Garages: 4
Warehouses: 7
Railroad structures: 6
Stables: 4
Guardhouses, sentry boxes, searchlights, etc.: 10
Commercial stores: 21

Structures (continued)
Dormitories and bunkhouses—male: 98
Dormitories—female: 21
Miscellaneous buildings: 140
Army barracks: 24
Y.M.C.A.'s: 4
Individual residences: 11
Multiple houses: 33
Workmen’s houses: 227
Post office: 1
School house: 1
Fire houses: 2
Tent tops: 444
Family apartments—two rooms: 96
Family apartments—four rooms: 179
Family apartments—three rooms: 23

MISCELLANEOUS
Steel required for plant buildings: 6,000 tons
Square feet of plaster board: 1,350,000
Square feet of “Composite” metal lath: 4,000,000
Ft. B.M. lumber: 30,000,000
Squares of ruberoid: 27,200
Square feet of stucco: 3,550,000
Power driven belt conveyors: 12 miles
Conveyor housing: 5 miles
Fire alarm wire—plant: 40 miles
Fire alarm wire—town: 12 miles
Average buildings built per day: 4

Metadata:
  source_type: book
  source_id: amatol_book
  source_name: Amatol Book
  title: Amatol Book
  author: None
  year: 1918
  date: 1918
  pages: p014-018
  section: Scope Of The Work
  file_path: amatol/books/amatol_book/p014-018__scope-of-the-work.txt
  citation: Amatol Book, 1918, pp. 014–018, Scope Of The Work

=== File: amatol/books/amatol_book/p225__town-administration.txt ===
Page Content:
Town Administration

TOWN ADMINISTRATION

The administration of the town of Amatol is under the direction of the Town Manager, whose office and duties correspond to those of a mayor or chief burgess. Under him are the various operating divisions headed by the Town Superintendent, the Renting Agent and the Commissary Superintendent. Their work broadly covers the operation and maintenance of those public utilities associated with the town—housing and renting, town accounting, education and the commissary management of the entire development for the plant as well as for the town.

During the construction period the commissary came under the jurisdiction of the Town Superintendent, but when the various divisions of public service were completed and turned over to the town management for operation, the commissary became a separate division reporting directly to the Town Manager.

The duties of the Town Superintendent include the important subdivision of housing of mechanics and laborers, police and fire protection, maintenance and operation of the water supply, sewerage system, town lighting, steam heating, garbage disposal and sanitation. The sanitation of town and camps is being conducted under the direction of the Chief Surgeon and a sanitary engineer, who report weekly on sanitary conditions.

The country-wide influenza outbreak in 1918 added a big load to the health and sanitation work, more particularly because of the fact that many employees lived outside the town. The importance of uninterrupted production in the various plants made this work vital. Upon direct comment by one of the highest medical department authorities on the methods of the influenza epidemic the total cases reported from the army for the month of October was 500,000, with 26,000 deaths. The deaths from influenza during the three months here were only 15 or the 2.02 per cent. of a population of 570. Of the persons who died with influenza, the majority were people coming locally to the reservation from infected districts. These cases usually developed within 48 hours of their admission to the hospital and it is believed that they were infected before coming to the reservation.

There is, of course, a large amount of garbage from the various mess halls operated by the Company, and that this may not be wasted there has been installed a piggery with 300 hogs of which about 100 are finely bred. About 3,500 pounds of garbage is collected daily and after being hauled to the piggery, which is in an outlying district, it is heated in a large steam kettle to sterilize any uncooked food before being fed to the hogs.

Included also among the operations under the direct supervision of the Town Superintendent are the ice plant, having a capacity of 30 tons a day, and a large fully equipped laundry, capable of meeting the entire requirements of both town and plant, including the cleaning of the special clothing used by plant operatives.

Town police and fire department come within the province of the Town Superintendent. The town police are distinct from the military police, having to do with the oversight and protection of civilians, whereas the duties of the military police have to do with the soldiers only. The fire department is similar in its organization to that of any town or municipality and has complete fire fighting equipment.

The Commissary Superintendent has had a very difficult undertaking feeding as many as 15,000 employees in the single day reported. In addition to the regular meals in large blocks of troops, on very short notice, meals have had to be prepared for these forces. To illustrate, between October 7th and 10th, 2,600 soldiers were brought in and had to be fed and housed, thereby taxing the resources of the commissary and the housing division to the utmost. Officers of these troops commented that there was no man who did not have three hot meals a day and a bed. Soldiers to the number of 3,800 have been fed in a single day.

The various mess halls, including those for girls, the staff, soldiers and laborers’ messes, supplied in a single day between 15,000 and 20,000 meals. During the month of October between 15,000 and 20,000 meals were furnished every week. Virtually all the meals are served on the plan of the cafeteria system and the halls are equipped in the most thorough way for efficient and prompt service.

A kindergarten and graded school is maintained for the children of the town.

Metadata:
  source_type: book
  source_id: amatol_book
  source_name: Amatol Book
  title: Amatol Book
  author: None
  year: 1918
  date: 1918
  pages: p225
  section: Town Administration
  file_path: amatol/books/amatol_book/p225__town-administration.txt
  citation: Amatol Book, 1918, p. 225, Town Administration

=== File: amatol/books/amatol_book/p181-182__the-town-of-amatol.txt ===
Page Content:
The Town Of Amatol

THE TOWN OF AMATOL
The town of Amatol, which is named after one of the explosives used in the plant, covers a tract of about 350 acres lying to the northeast of the plant. A distance of upward of two miles separates the closest points between town and plant.

The town is located on a natural eminence, a few miles distant from the famous New Jersey coast resorts and is within the territory that comes under the influence of the Gulf Stream. The wood growth is largely the pines that have given to this section its reputation for healthfulness; and in clearing the land for the town, most of these trees, together with oaks, have been left standing.

The industrial section of the town was made a long, narrow block reaching well in toward the center, and in this was built one branch of the railroad, all of the warehouses, the material storage yards, garages, heating plant, laundry, wood working shop and similar commercial structures.

The impression given by a first view of Amatol is that of a well-kept suburban settlement. The town was not thrown together merely to put roofs and walls around its working people at night, but was built to keep its population satisfied with its surroundings and living conditions and tuned for the rapid production for which the establishment was designed.

The town was planned on a basis of a possible population of 25,000. The houses were designed for speedy construction, yet planned to resist weather—the quickest, most economical construction capable of affording comfort and protection.

The first impressive view of Liberty Court as one enters the town through West J Street is the keynote of the complete scheme. In the planning of the town thought was given to its general attractiveness as well as to the quick housing of its people. It was designed to be a town rather than a group of buildings without idea of symmetry. The rule of about twelve houses to the net acre—that is, land, excluding road—was generally adopted as the ideal spacing to afford ample room for gardens, to prevent an appearance of crowding and to minimize the fire risk. Besides this, provision was made for extent of outlook by arranging breaks in the street lines, by setting the houses back or placing them around courts and by planning roads to give a command of a distant view or to lead on to open spaces.

In the planning of roads attractiveness was sought throughout. Around the central part of the town extends an oval-shaped roadway about 800 feet in length and across this runs a central parkway. This has the advantage of breaking the vistas and of giving an always changing view.

It is doubtless for this reason, in part, that the first impression of the town, with its stucco buildings, is that it was constructed for permanence. Unlike most quick-operation towns there is none of the hit-or-miss appearance, but, instead, a harmonious effect in every feature.

The housing facilities may be roughly grouped as follows: dormitories, residences, multiple houses, workmen’s houses and bunkhouses.

Of the women’s dormitories the largest group or unit was planned to accommodate 800. The largest single dormitory built for women has 150 single rooms. There are three classes of women’s dormitories, namely, one for plant operatives, a second for women office help and the third for the women inspectors. These have accommodated up to 1,000 working people from these three classes.

A good illustration of this class of structures is the girls’ dormitory for the use of office workers. Dignified, yet simple in its exterior, it is arranged throughout for comfortable living. A big living room, 60 feet in length, has a fireplace at each end and simple but attractive furnishings. The room includes a piano, long tables, lounges and easy chairs, and leading from it are numerous little alcove rooms for entertaining.

The building is “H” shaped, its center being given to the living room, a sun parlor and general rooms, while its two side wings contain the dormitory rooms, each for one occupant only; and its furnishing includes bed, bureau, table and chair. There is a complete laundry with drying apparatus, as well as a diet kitchen, infirmary and shower. It would, indeed, be difficult to design a building better suited to its purposes, comfortable in its construction and within its walls all the accessories for the proper housing of its occupants. This building, affording living facilities for 150 girls, may well be termed a model of its class.

All dormitory buildings have complete toilet arrangements and showers. The bunkhouses also are fully equipped in this respect. Many have telephone service, which connect with all offices, mess halls, dormitories, etc.

Of the various mess halls, the largest, the general mess hall, has a seating capacity of 800 in each wing, or 1,600 in all. In it, 6,000 people can be served in an hour. The staff mess hall, with a seating capacity of 450, has served 700 persons at one meal, the service being on the cafeteria system.

The houses are of three general classes—single residences, workmen's houses and multiple-type houses. The residences have from six to nine rooms, the workmen's houses from two to five rooms, and the multiple houses from four to six rooms. All are steam-heated, underdrained and have modern toilet arrangements, including shower baths. Other types, varying in the number of rooms from four to eight, are projected.

The general office building, 200 feet in length, has 32 offices. Adjacent to it are the various other town administration buildings.

One projected group of buildings, some completed, others moving towards completion, is a Y. M. C. A. unit, including swimming pool, gymnasium with stage, bowling alley, billiard rooms and refreshment and lounging rooms.

While the general residence section centers about Liberty Court, with its commercial shops and its commodious theatre, the offices occupy an area by themselves.

Building Methods and Comfort
The method of construction of the buildings is, generally speaking, cement stucco on a composite metal lath, sometimes called "brick lath." This lath is a mesh of steel wire, upon which brick clay has been pressed and baked so as to enclose the wire in brick or terra cotta while leaving the fabric flexible. It comes rolled in strips 40 inches in width and 16 feet in length.

In the wall construction, the composite lath is nailed to the studding, which has previously been covered with a layer of weatherproof paper. The lath is then covered with stucco in the regular manner and the surface is finished. This wall construction gives an air space of four inches which provides effective insulation, making the buildings warmer in winter and cooler in summer.

The interior partitions are plaster curtain walls, and, while their thickness is but 1½ inches, they have the necessary strength and the advantages of the standard wood partition. This means a saving of all studding and more floor room, giving a very great advantage in both economy and speed.

Female Employment and Morale
One significant indication of the wisdom of building in a way to satisfy the standards of living of employees is given by the records of female employment. In the earliest stages of construction, when the housing conditions were limited and incomplete, the turnover of help among the women was considerably greater than it became when the dormitories were completed and equipped and the various phases of welfare work, such as recreation and entertainment, were fully organized. Indeed, through all departments the morale of the employees steadily improved and production quickened with the advancing improvement in living conditions until both reached the highest stage with the completion of housing quarters and facilities.

Closing Reflection
The history of this community has again demonstrated that American labor wants not merely to exist, but to live; that upon living conditions is dependent enthusiasm for work; that to house workmen in buildings that are not both attractive and comfortable is a fundamental error.

Metadata:
  source_type: book
  source_id: amatol_book
  source_name: Amatol Book
  title: Amatol Book
  author: None
  year: 1918
  date: 1918
  pages: p181-182
  section: The Town Of Amatol
  file_path: amatol/books/amatol_book/p181-182__the-town-of-amatol.txt
  citation: Amatol Book, 1918, pp. 181–182, The Town Of Amatol

