Amatol Munitions Factory
Amatol is an abandoned munitions factory and
associated company town, located just a few
miles east of Hammonton. Constructed by the
Atlantic Shell Loading Company, Amatol
derives its name from the explosive loaded into
the shell as an accelerant for the projectile.

In 1918, a year after the United States entered
World War I, the government purchased 6,000
acres of land to build a munitions plant and town.
The speedy design and extensive use of concrete
construction at Amatol was a major urban
planning achievement. In the span of nine
months, the contractor completed houses,
dormitories, bunk houses, schools, and other
facilities to accommodate between 10,000-
20,000 plant workers and their families. The
Amatol Railroad served to transport workers from their town to the factories located two miles away as
well as make connections with the West Jersey & Seashore Railroad.

The plant closed down after the war ended and the federal government ordered a series of auctions for
everything from the equipment in the manufacturing facilities to the buildings in the town between the
years 1919 and 1924. Within five years, the town and plant became a virtual memory, with just remnants of
concrete found throughout the site and the extant office building along the White Horse Pike, which later
served as a New Jersey State Police barracks.
Amatol received a second chance when Charles Schwab bought the land in 1926 to construct a “wooden
bowl” speedway. The wooden and oval track measured one and one-half miles long. Although it received
high attendance at the opening, the racetrack only remained open for two years. Schwab leased the site as a
test track to automobile companies after losing interest in racing.

Currently, the Mullica Township Recreation Association has taken over a portion of the site. Only one
building remains intact from the facility. Remnants of the roads, homes, structures and racetrack can still
be found and excavated on the site.