head" and the purpose of filling above the shell is merely that the point of extreme crystallization, which takes place rapidly when the explosive is exposed to air, may be above the outside of the shell itself.

To further reduce the possibility of cavitation when 50/50 is poured, a metal wire is thrust into the shell charge just after the pouring, and withdrawn in a few seconds; this having a tendency to make crystallization uniform throughout. Results have shown that this produces a charge of even texture and of the specified density.

After the charge is poured the "pouring head" is removed and re-used later, the use of a 50 per cent. proportion being permissible, provided it is within 48 hours of the original pouring.

The shell now go to the cooling room where they are stored for eight or nine hours until completely cooled. They are then drilled to receive the booster and the thread is thoroughly cleaned to remove all explosive that may have collected. The cavity for the booster is next shellacked to waterproof it in the event that the booster is not placed immediately. This, however, is not necessary if the booster is inserted at once.

The cartridge case is filled with smokeless powder, the latter being weighed with automatic weighing machines. Shell bodies and cartridge cases then go to the assembling building, where they are partly assembled by hand and finally crimped together in the assembling and crimping machine. Gauging and weighing come next in the operation of making the shell ready for the booster. The shell is now to go to the building where the booster, which detonates the charge, is placed in the cavity drilled for it. The booster is a steel case charged with tetryl. The shell now go by conveyor to the packing shed, and thence to the shipping building.

An important intermediate stage is the stenciling of the shell, so that the gunner may know by the marking in what zone it will fall. Throughout the process of handling the shells, Government inspectors keep watch on all operations. It is the purpose that the progress of the shell throughout the plant shall be continuous, both for speed in expediting the work and, so far as possible, storage at any of the various stages.

The shortage of raw material was one reason it was necessary to amalol rather than straight T.N.T. Owing to the impossibility of obtaining T.N.T. in sufficient quantities the mix with ammonium nitrate was at the time imperative. The mix has as high explosive power as T.N.T., the one disadvantage of using it being that ammonium nitrate absorbs moisture rapidly, and in time deteriorates. The life of the shell loaded with straight T.N.T. is indefinite—certainly 25 years—while the condition of shell loaded with amatol would be uncertain after perhaps five years. In loading, every possible precaution, such as shellacing, is necessary to exclude moisture when amatol is used. The plant loads straight T.N.T. when adequate supply is obtainable.

As it leaves the plant the shell is complete, except for the placing of the fuse, an operation which is done at the battlefront.

In the matter of protection, the plant has been covered in many respects beyond the usual means of care to lessen risk. The operating buildings are practically all steel-frame with composite lath and cement construction or corrugated metal sides. Hydrants are placed inside and outside the building in such position that all parts can be covered with water. One hundred feet of hose is provided for each outside hydrant. Hose racks are placed in the buildings at short intervals and fire buckets 20 feet apart. A water line points out all hydrants and the location of hose, and a water line is carried completely around the plant. There is a constant system of inspection of buckets and apparatus.

In the matter of cleanliness and sanitation generally the plant operation in the matter of cleanliness was none too moderate. Operating rooms were thoroughly and rigidly inspected by a special force whose duty it was: the purpose being not to let it pile up and then dispose of it, but actually to prevent accumulation. Buildings where T.N.T. is poured were kept under constant cleaning and are flushed out with steam daily. Exhaust apparatus removes dust from the atmosphere.

A safety patrol was maintained whose duty it was not only to take care of waste, but to remove any operative whose health became impaired.

Personal cleanliness among operatives was required by constant watchfulness on the part of nurses and Government inspectors. The nurses and matron in charge of T.N.T. treated dust as a deadly poison and took care of it as such. Women operatives working on T.N.T. Besides this the matron and physicians took care of hygiene, weeding out unfit workers. Men, as well as women, were examined. Medical expert make frequent inspections not only to supervise matters of hygiene, but to remove any operative whose health becomes impaired.