PLANT OPERATION

In mountainous countries where precious metal ores are milled or smelted at the mines the works are built if possible on the side of a hill, so that the ore enters at the top and descends by the aid of gravity until it reaches the last process at the bottom. A similar plan to minimize the handling of shell was devised by the Atlantic Loading Company and put into successful use at the Amatol works. Instead of the force of gravity, power belt conveyors are used, and these conveyors carry the shell from the receiving building through all successive processes until they are delivered, finished at the end of the unit for shipment. The conveyors are also great time savers and are one of the principal factors for speedy production. They consist of endless belts riding on fixed rollers in narrow tramways, laid on the floors or on the level of the working benches. The total length of the conveyor lines is 12 miles.

Shell Journey on the Conveyor
The journey of a shell along the conveyor line in any of the units is an interesting demonstration of the time and labor-saving nature of the device. Whether the shell be large or small, it is placed lengthwise on the conveyor belt and moves along at a constant speed to the next process. When it reaches the proper point a workman stationed there simply rolls it off the belt on the bench. At practically no time is it necessary to lift the shell at all, the workman rolling it along flat as he does his task to another workman, who does his particular job and either passes it along by rolling or rolls it back on the conveyor, which carries it to the next process. In the case of large, heavy shell this method not only saves time, but a vast amount of physical exertion.

Initial Shell Preparation
In the receiving building the shells are received, cleaned and shellaced. Empty shell storage space is here provided for 15 to 20 days' production. When received at the plant the shell have their copper or metal shipping gags screwed in the nose, and the first process is the removal of these plugs. This is a machine operation. The remover heads are placed at a revolving shaft, and the men engage the plug and unscrew it.

Sequential Processing
From the receiving building the shell are carried forward to each successive stage on conveyor lines, which finally converge in the packing and shipping building.

Amatol, which is the main charge pressed into the shell (unless straight trinitrotoluol (T.N.T.) or a 50/50 mix is used) contains 80% ammonium nitrate and 20% T.N.T.

Mixing Ammonium Nitrate and T.N.T.
The ammonium nitrate is crushed and dried before mixing. The T.N.T. is melted and the two are mixed in the kettle room. The kettles have hot water jackets, heated by a steam coil within the jacket, and each kettle is provided with an agitator. The total charge of a kettle is about 800 pounds, and a melt is obtained every two hours. When a mixture is used the amount of T.N.T. needed is first melted in the kettle and then hot ammonium nitrate is added until a full charge of proper proportions is obtained.

When T.N.T. is poured, the material is drawn off into stirring tubs. Stirring is necessary because of the rapid crystallization of T.N.T. when cooling begins, which might cause exudation in the charge. The material is therefore stirred with wooden paddles to break up the large crystals into smaller crystals and give a more even charge. The stirring tubs are mounted on wheels and move along tracks to the shell. The empty shell dies, before the pouring process, are brought to the pouring house and filled with hot sand to expel the air. The solution is sprayed on the inside shell by a spray nozzle. They are wheeled to the pouring conveyor, passing through a special gate, which also heats the shell and allows them to run automatically into the pouring process. The shells bodies are run into the pouring building on specially heavy conveyors. A rubber tube is placed in the nose of each, through which the charge is poured in small quantities to prevent holes forming in the loading. In the case of 75 mm shells, they need be only one pouring.

When straight T.N.T. is used the method of pouring is slightly different. A short hose, however, is poured into the body of the boulder and then straight T.N.T. is poured to the top of the funnel. This method permits extremely rapid production. The portion of the explosive in the funnel is termed the “pouring