impossible to describe these in detail, but a few illustrations will give the reader a better idea of the difficulties which were met and surmounted. 
Construction naturally was the first thing on the programme. In all construction the two main factors are labor and materials. Even in normal times these factors are difficult problems in any large undertaking. In the early part of the year 1918, with the whole country absorbed in war work and with normal conditions completely upset, they presented ten-fold more difficulties. To get labor with which to build its plant and town the Company was compelled to go into a labor market booming from unprecedented demand and to bid against high wages in all industries. But the problem was solved by making the work attractive and providing the best living and housing conditions for the workers.

To get the materials with which to build was no less difficult. Those were the days of unlimited demand and undeveloped supplies, of congested freight carrying facilities and Government priority orders for shipments. It was easy to order supplies, but quite another matter to get them. The purchasing department of the Company rose to the emergency by organizing a special expediting division. This division dispatched men to various seats of supply, such as the lumber mills of the South, and these men followed the orders placed by the Company until the materials were turned out and shipped. Other men experienced in freight shipping were stationed at junction points to set shipments straight and give advance notice of their coming. This expediting service brought results, and at the high point of operations the Company had no less than 700 cars of material in transit at one time. Simultaneously the construction was moving steadily and uninterruptedly.

Purchase of supplies necessarily was made on a vast scale to meet the demands of these several departments, totaling many millions of dollars during the period of eight months. The purchasing department, in order to do this work, had a force of 300 persons engaged at one time. These included the office in Philadelphia, where purchases were made, and that at Amatol, where the traffic and the routing of shipments and invoices were handled.

New problems also confronted the financial and accounting department. As the Company was acting as agent of the Government it was necessary for the treasurer’s office to make the complex accounting and auditing systems synchronize with those of the Government. This was successfully done and the payrolls and disbursements of funds were made to conform with Government requirements. It was accomplished by a system of invoice accounting, checking materials and the final approval and payment of invoices through the Government disbursing office. All records of such disbursements were carried into the Company’s field account and corresponded exactly with the records of the Government’s accounting division. Payroll disbursements also were made in accordance with Government requirements as to checking of time, distribution of labor costs and proper disbursement of funds. No question as to payrolls ever arose between the Company and the Government—a fact in which the Company may feel a degree of pride. Accounting methods also were made to fit the special requirements of the plant and town operations.

In every other department similar problems were presented and successfully solved, and they would not have been possible had it not been for the character of the personnel, so admirably fitted for the work. In the construction department the Company has had in its service some of the best men known to organizations having wide experience on many of the largest pieces of construction throughout the country.

On its engineering staff it had men with special experience in hydro-electric and other extensive developments. These men were thoroughly familiar with all kinds of material, all phases of construction work and had behind them command data collected through years of important development work. Associated with them as consultants were Clinton D. Mackenzie, Consulting Architect, and Clyde Potts, Consulting Engineer on sewerage and water.

The work of the Women’s Department went on and women, was made very difficult, because of the shortage incident to the demands made upon them by the abnormal war industrial activities. Admirable results were obtained, particularly by the Superintendent of Women to whom was entrusted the direct direction of the organizations for recreational and communal life, as well as the employment and housing of women.