WAR EXPENDITURES.

that condemnation was begun, which was approximately a month before the signing of the armistice, you had that land under lease and were occupying it for the purposes of that plant?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
MR. GRAHAM. Some one in the War Department concluded you should buy it, did they?
COL. HAWKINS. Our intention at the start was to buy it, but in September, 1917, Congress had not given any power to buy such land for this purpose. Congress did give power on May 11, 1918.
MR. GRAHAM. Gave power for what?
COL. HAWKINS. Gave power to the Secretary of War to buy land for purposes of this kind.
MR. GRAHAM. General power?
COL. HAWKINS. Well, he had ample power before to buy cantonments and camp sites and then on May 11, 1918, they gave broader powers, and then we did begin to negotiate for the purchase of various plants and on the 22d of May the Secretary of War delegated authority in the matter of procuring real estate to the Real Estate Service under the Purchase, Storage and Traffic Division.
MR. GRAHAM. How many loading plants did you have at the time or have you since acquired?
COL. HAWKINS. We have five loading plants.
MR. GRAHAM. Where are they?
COL. HAWKINS. The Atlantic Loading Co., at Hammonton, or Amatol, as we call it; the Gillespie Loading Co. plant at Morgan, near South Amboy, N.J.; that is the plant which blew up on the 4th of October, 1918; the California Loading Co. plant at Old Bridge, Va.; and one other plant in New Jersey at Mays Landing; and Penneman plant in Virginia operated by the Du Pont Co.
MR. GRAHAM. Did you own these other plants at the time you acquired this Amatol plant?
COL. HAWKINS. We owned a substantial part of the Morgan, N.J., plant. We had a lease, with an option to purchase, on the California plant. We have merely a lease on the Penneman, Va., real estate. We have a commitment to purchase or to pay a very large rent on the Mays Landing plant.
MR. GRAHAM. Now, how many acres did you have in these other plants?
COL. HAWKINS. The Mays Landing plant has 5,000 acres; the Morgan plant, I am not sure, but I should think that was about 5,000. I have been there and all over it; the Old Bridge plant, the California Loading Co. plant, is quite small comparatively speaking—about 1,200 acres; the Penneman plant as I recollect, is 4,000 or 5,000 acres; we lease that.
MR. GRAHAM. Now, prior to this war how many loading plants did we have?
COL. HAWKINS. We hadn’t any. We had an experimental plant at Pickatinny arsenal, and Penneman did some.
MR. GRAHAM. Now, did the Government propose even after the war was over to have five immense plants for loading?
COL. HAWKINS. No, sir; we gave all the plants up and turned them over to salvage except this Amatol plant. The others are in a state of salvage now.
MR. GRAHAM. But this one you propose to keep?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
