MR. GRAHAM (interposing). Six hundred acres, or 6,000 acres?
COL. HAWKINS. Six thousand acres which they had bought from a land company; we selected the site. They had two or three sites, and we approved the site after two or three other sites had been taken up and considered. We originally expected to build it near Camp Dix, and the commanding officer of Camp Dix told us he did not want it near his soldiers, so we moved.
MR. GRAHAM. Did they do the building then?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
MR. GRAHAM. Had a contract for building it?
COL. HAWKINS. That was part of the main contract they had, the construction and operation of a loading plant as the agent of the United States.
MR. GRAHAM. At the time you made the selection did they at that time own this 6,000 acres?
COL. HAWKINS. No, sir; they bought it from some land company.
MR. GRAHAM. They had it at that time leased at $8 an acre, didn’t they? Well, on July 17, 1918, according to your book, Ordnance—that is, the Ordnance Department—requests the purchase of 6,000 acres at Hammonton, N.J., which has been leased at $8 an acre with privileges of purchase at $38 per acre. Is that correct?
COL. HAWKINS. I think so?
MR. GRAHAM. Who leased it?
COL. HAWKINS. The Atlantic Loading Co. leased it at our request.
MR. GRAHAM. That is what I asked you; I guess you misunderstood me. I asked you if they had it leased.
COL. HAWKINS. They had it leased with the right to purchase it.
MR. GRAHAM. They were leasing it at $8 an acre; how long did that continue?
COL. HAWKINS. I do not know; I assume you have the correct figures there.
MR. GRAHAM. They do not say how long it lasted [reading]:
  *July 17, 1918, Ordnance requests purchase of 6,000 acres at Hammonton, N.J., which has been leased at $8 per acre with privilege of purchase at $38 per acre.*
  
Do you know how long that lease ran before it expired?
COL. HAWKINS. My recollection is that it ran for the period of the war and some time after.
MR. GRAHAM. So that the Government could have continued the occupancy of the land at this $8 an acre?
COL. HAWKINS. Yes, sir.
MR. GRAHAM. Now, the next step I see is:
  *Report of representative of this office that owners will only consider selling 8,300 acres if price is reduced.*
This is also signed by Mr. Kahn—that owners will only consider selling 8,300 acres if price is reduced.

And then there was a second recommendation on a larger tract. You were then trying to buy 8,300 acres, were you?
COL. HAWKINS. I think the larger tract was tendered to us. There was a scheme to get some water front up on the bay.
MR. GRAHAM. On September 16—the book says September 16, 1919. I judge that is an error and that it should be 1918. In September you began condemnation for 6,000 acres of land. Now, at the time
