SCOPE OF THE WORK

In April, 1917, when the United States declared war on Germany, and began the work of enlarging the Army and Navy and providing for the needed supply of food, clothing and munitions, its greatest task was to provide for the manufacture of munitions. The needed men were here; it only remained to draft and drill them. Food and clothing were being produced; it only remained to stimulate production. But to provide for an ample supply of munitions new factories had to be built and peacetime works transformed into gun and shell producers.

The achievements of 1918 showed how well this work had been done in 1917. Once the lathes and the forges were working it became necessary to supply the high explosives with which to charge the shell they turned out, and to provide extensive machinery for doing the charging. Contracts were made for the production on a vast scale of trinitrotoluol, the destructive explosive used in modern big gun ammunition, and other contracts for the construction of plants for the loading of the shell as fast as the mills turned them out.

Four large shell loading plants were projected and eventually placed in operation, namely, those of the Bethlehem Loading Co., the T. A. Gillespie Loading Co., the DuPont Engineering Co. and the Atlantic Loading Company. Of these the plant of the Atlantic Loading Company is the largest. It is located at Amatol, New Jersey—a town which came into being to house its workers, and is about 25 miles from Atlantic City, adjacent to and north of the Pennsylvania and the Reading railroads. The site consists of a tract of approximately 6,000 acres of land, with its western boundary about six miles east of Hammonton, New Jersey.

The history of the Atlantic Loading Company is a story of organization, construction and production in quick-step time. It entered into a contract with the Ordnance Department of the Government to act as its agent in loading and storing shell, and it conducted its work and enterprise from first to last in accordance with the rules and regulations of that department. It began the work of construction on its plant on March 4, 1918, began operations the following July, and in August loaded its first shell, and in the meantime it also had built the new town of Amatol. An indication of the high speed with which its operations were conducted may be found in the fact that within twenty-four hours after the site was finally determined upon, actual work on clearing the land for the plant was under way.

The enterprise combined two separate and distinct undertakings, either of which in itself would require an organization embracing high skill, initiative and intensive working power. One was the rapid construction of a large shell loading plant, the other the building of a town to provide proper quarters for the thousands of workers whose employment was contemplated. To meet the requirements of the Ordnance Department the plant had to be brought to a producing basis at the earliest day possible, and to do this the town had to be built and made ready to house the workers at the same time.

It was in contemplation of this that the Atlantic Loading Company was incorporated under the laws of the State of Maine in December, 1917. The stated purposes of the corporation were: first, to construct and operate a shell loading plant for the production of completed rounds of ammunition and to provide the necessary storage capacity therefor; second, to build a town for the housing of the operatives. The plant was designed to be the largest of its type in the country, providing for the loading of shell of all sizes from 75 mm, to 10-inch drop bombs, depth bombs, rifle grenades, hand grenades and boosters. The charter provisions were very broad, in order to permit the Company to enter into contracts for construction of any and all kinds, such as steam and electric railroads, manufacturing plants, electrical transmission lines, power developments, buildings and bridges.

The Atlantic Loading Company is the tri-party control of O. J. Salisbury, of Salt Lake City, Utah; J. D. Evans, of the Evans Engineering Corporation; and the Electric Bond & Share Company. Both Mr. Salisbury and Mr. Evans were fully equipped for the great undertaking, having had long and varied experience in the financing and creation of extensive industrial developments, mining operations and public utility enterprises. The Electric Bond & Share Company is...