known as one of the country’s most successful companies engaged in the financing and operation of public utilities.

The first task of these three interests was to create the organization needed for the new work. As it stands to-day, the organization of the Atlantic Loading Company covers all the various phases of its work, including finance, male and female employment, accounting, engineering, purchasing, construction, operating, housing, commissary, medical work, sanitation and welfare. In all of these departments the greatest efficiency has been developed.

At the beginning of March, 1918, the site of the plant was an unbroken tract, mostly wooded, with some acres of swamp. The land was of a kind peculiarly difficult to clear for building construction, owing to the dense, tangled nature of the growth. Nine months later it was covered with a plant which has turned out ammunition of many types in large quantities, including drop bombs and large shell; and in addition a town capable of properly housing over 10,000 people, with the many needed buildings for administration, auxiliary operation, recreation, etc., has been built.

At the outset it was necessary to obtain carpenters and other workmen, lumber, commissary outfits and supplies. Within the first week the first bunkhouse and mess hall were up, housing and feeding an initial force of forty men. From the beginning the work expanded with ever-increasing rapidity, buildings going up almost over night. The speed in construction may be gauged by the fact that, during a period of nine months, the Company constructed an average of about four buildings of various kinds a day, from construction office up to such large structures as loading, administration, mess and dormitory buildings.

Besides the building construction for plant and town there was a great amount of auxiliary construction, consisting in part of about fifty miles of standard gauge railroad track, water supply, sewerage systems, thirty miles of 66,000-volt transmission line and other power systems, telephone and telegraph systems, centralized heating plants and electric-lighting stations. It was because that the rapidity with which the plant was placed under way was in a large measure fundamental to the fact that the living conditions and the town were fundamentally correct. “Speed—simplicity—results” were the watchwords in the construction of plant and town, but nevertheless all structures were substantially built.

Semi-fire-proof construction of stucco and “Composite” metal unit was determined upon; and it is an interesting fact that this durable type of building was successfully used at almost the same cost as ordinary cantonment construction—very little in excess of the cost of wood and, in many cases, cheaper. The use of fabricated steel structures, assembled in panels at the factory, facilitated erection and aided in the “record” completion of the 75 mm plant. Standardized unit “A” frame steel structures were also used. An inspection of the accompanying photographs will indicate the elasticity of this standardized construction. The units being bolted together, the structure can be wrecked and readily converted into a large variety of manufacturing buildings. This steel construction was adopted because of the salvage value of the material.

The fact that stands out most sharply in connection with this vast enterprise is that while the Company has built substantially, it has also built quickly. Precisely what this has meant in physical construction is shown by the concrete figures given in the following statistical table:

These statistics cover the development as planned. The signing of the armistice caused the suspension of construction work and also some result some work for which material was purchased and delivered was not completed. About 90 per cent. of the construction was finished and in addition the actual loading of shell had been carried on for several months.

Loading operations began July 31, 1918.

First shell loaded (75 m. m. and drop bombs) August 3, 1918.

AREAS
Total acreage of reservation: 6,000

Acreage of operating plant: 2,550

Acreage of loading company town: 1,000

Acres cleared in general: 3,680

Acres cleared in town: 1,150

Acres trimmed in town: 255