THE TOWN OF AMATOL

The town of Amatol, which is named after one of the explosives used in the plant, covers a tract of about 350 acres lying to the northeast of the plant. A distance of upward of two miles separates the closest points between town and plant.

The town is located on a natural eminence, a few miles distant from the famous New Jersey coast resorts and is within the territory that comes under the influence of the Gulf Stream. The wood growth is largely the pines that have given to this section its reputation for healthfulness; and in clearing the land for the town, most of these trees, together with oaks, have been left standing.

The industrial section of the town was made a long, narrow block reaching well in toward the center, and in this was built one branch of the railroad, all of the warehouses, the material storage yards, garages, heating plant, laundry, wood working shop and similar commercial structures.

The impression given by a first view of Amatol is that of a well-kept suburban settlement. The town was not thrown together merely to put roofs and walls around its working people at night, but was built to keep its population satisfied with its surroundings and living conditions and tuned for the rapid production for which the establishment was designed.

The town was planned on a basis of a possible population of 25,000. The houses were designed for speedy construction, yet planned to resist weather—the quickest, most economical construction capable of affording comfort and protection.

The first impressive view of Liberty Court as one enters the town through West J Street is the keynote of the complete scheme. In the planning of the town thought was given to its general attractiveness as well as to the quick housing of its people. It was designed to be a town rather than a group of buildings without idea of symmetry. The rule of about twelve houses to the net acre—that is, land, excluding road—was generally adopted as the ideal spacing to afford ample room for gardens, to prevent an appearance of crowding and to minimize the fire risk. Besides this, provision was made for extent of outlook by arranging breaks in the street lines, by setting the houses back or placing them around courts and by planning roads to give a command of a distant view or to lead on to open spaces.

In the planning of roads attractiveness was sought throughout. Around the central part of the town extends an oval-shaped roadway about 800 feet in length and across this runs a central parkway. This has the advantage of breaking the vistas and of giving an always changing view.

It is doubtless for this reason, in part, that the first impression of the town, with its stucco buildings, is that it was constructed for permanence. Unlike most quick-operation towns there is none of the hit-or-miss appearance, but, instead, a harmonious effect in every feature.

The housing facilities may be roughly grouped as follows: dormitories, residences, multiple houses, workmen’s houses and bunkhouses.

Of the women’s dormitories the largest group or unit was planned to accommodate 800. The largest single dormitory built for women has 150 single rooms. There are three classes of women’s dormitories, namely, one for plant operatives, a second for women office help and the third for the women inspectors. These have accommodated up to 1,000 working people from these three classes.

A good illustration of this class of structures is the girls’ dormitory for the use of office workers. Dignified, yet simple in its exterior, it is arranged throughout for comfortable living. A big living room, 60 feet in length, has a fireplace at each end and simple but attractive furnishings. The room includes a piano, long tables, lounges and easy chairs, and leading from it are numerous little alcove rooms for entertaining.

The building is “H” shaped, its center being given to the living room, a sun parlor and general rooms, while its two side wings contain the dormitory rooms, each for one occupant only; and its furnishing includes bed, bureau, table and chair. There is a complete laundry.