ORGANIZATION
"With any large undertaking the keynote to success is organization," and the efficiency of an organization depends upon the correct division of the work in hand among several departments and the proper co-ordination of those departments one with another. In the Amatol project organization was particularly vital because of the rapidity with which the work had to be done and of the many new problems presented.

The very nature of the work required an organization of experts. These were drafted from going concerns engaged in large construction and financial enterprises. Loading shell with high explosives is a hazardous undertaking, and the men who formed the Atlantic Loading Company realized this. They summoned to their aid only men of broad experience along similar lines who had proven their fitness in successful work elsewhere. In an incredibly short time a suitable organization was mapped out and the necessary specialists were recruited to head the several departments.

OFFICERS
O. J. Salisbury, President & General Manager

J. D. Evans, Vice President & Operating Manager

C. E. Groesbeck, Vice President

G. E. Claflin, Vice President

A. E. Smith, Secretary-Treasurer

DIRECTORS
O. J. Salisbury

J. D. Evans, President, Evans Engineering Corporation

C. E. Groesbeck, Vice President, Electric Bond & Share Company

E. K. Hall, Vice President, Electric Bond & Share Company

G. E. Claflin, Vice President, Electric Bond & Share Company

Simplicity and effectiveness marked the division of the work into departments, each aligned with its function. The staff was as follows:

OPERATING MANAGER'S DEPARTMENT
Assistant Operating Manager: 1

Chief Clerk: 1

Stenographers: 5

Clerks: 5

ENGINEERING
Chief Engineer: 1

Assistant Chief Engineer: 1

Consulting Engineers: 2

Resident Engineer: 1

Assistants to Chief Engineer: 3

Sanitary and Water Supply Engineer: 1

Mechanical Engineer: 1

Electrical Engineer: 1

Material Engineer: 1

Development Engineer: 1

Civil and Structural Engineer: 1

Consulting Architect: 1

Architect: 1

Cost Engineer: 1

Chief Chemist: 1

Assistant Chemists: 3

Engineers and Draftsmen: 7

Field Men (Instruments, Rodmen, etc.): 65

Clerks, Stenographers, etc.: 9

CONSTRUCTION
General Construction Superintendent: 1

Assistant General Construction Superintendent: 1

Construction Engineers: 10

Foremen and Sub-Foremen: 54

Stenographers, Clerks, etc.: 2

The Company had about 5,500 men on construction work, including all trades such as:

Carpenters

Plumbers

Electricians

Plasterers

Lathe workers

Machinists

Boiler makers

Painters

Teamsters

Laborers