The pumps are automatically controlled to cut out when the pressure tanks are full and to resume duty when the water in the tanks recedes to a certain level.

There is one tank at the townsite mounted on 100-ft. steel tower; six at the plantsite of the same size and height as the town tank, except the two in the rear of the 6-inch 50/50 plant, which are on 110-ft. steel towers. Each of these tanks is of 50,000 gallons' capacity. There are also three small wooden tanks, size 10 × 10 feet, mounted on frame towers located at Camp Doring, Magnolia Camp and near Heating Plant No. 1. There are also driven wells varying in depth from 130 to 150 feet at these locations.

The town water supply mains are 10-inch, 8-inch, 6-inch and 4-inch Universal cast-iron pipe, totaling 9 miles in length. In the plant there are 20 miles of mains. The hydrants in the town are what are known as the Corey and the Darling, solid stress, frost-proof, non-freezing types, with two 2½-inch independent hose nozzles and one steamer connection. At the plant the Darling type is used exclusively.

The town is served by a complete and modern sewerage system and disposal works. An 18-inch and a 15-inch trunk sewer carry all the sewage collected by the laterals from the town to the septic tanks. From the septic tanks the effluent is piped to sand filters, whence in a purified state it eventually finds its way to tide-water.

The septic tanks are three in number, each 125 feet long and 12 feet wide, with an effective depth of 9 feet and of 101,250 gallons’ capacity. The purpose of the septic tanks is to settle out and to decompose the solid matter in the sewage.

Before the sewage is run out upon the sand filter beds it is collected and retained in a dosing tank. This tank is of 30,000 gallons’ capacity and when full is automatically released and the dose run out upon one of the beds. The other beds are dosed in turn and the cycle repeated.

The sand filter beds are eight in number, comprising 3½ acres of filtering sand. The effluent is distributed upon the beds by wooden troughs. It filters through 2½ feet of sand and is caught by under drains. These empty into an 18-inch out-fall sewer, which carries away the purified effluent.

Included among the major auxiliary operations also is the Amatol Railroad, which will have 50 miles of standard gauge railroad track. It has 10 locomotives and 30 passenger cars. When the railroad was started it was virtually impossible to obtain passenger cars to carry workmen between town and plant. Some of the cars are street railway cars obtained in Chicago and remade for their present use.

The conduct of automobile and truck transportation, stables for over 500 horses, coal storage, telephone system, army barracks, and various other activities are also included among auxiliary operations. These have all been organized and conducted with the same thoroughness as the operation of the plant and the administration of the town.