The plant reached a production of 16,000 shell of this type in a day of eight hours. However, on account of Government requirements, this unit was compelled to load both 75 mm shell and aerial drop bombs. An index of the flexibility of the layout was the development of the extruding machine for loading drop bombs with Amatol in the 75 mm plant.

The next unit to start operations was the booster plant; and following this, the 4.7-inch plant.

One of the methods worked out by the organization that has resulted in greater safety in shell production is in the construction of the kettle in which trinitrotoluol is melted. Heretofore, the kettles were steam jacketed and should the pressure reducing valves fail the temperature of the T.N.T., or the 50/50 mix, would reach a dangerous point liable to cause explosion. In the construction used by the Atlantic Loading Company the kettles are water jacketed; that is, the steam pipes are surrounded with water between the inner and outer casings of the double kettle with a vent to the air. It is therefore impossible for the temperature of the mix to become higher than boiling water, and this is well below the danger point of high explosive temperature.

The Company's engineers were the first to use belt conveyors in the production of shell. To turn out shell in large quantity and economically this operation must be one continuous process from the receiving room to the final stage. The conveyors carry the shell continuously from the first stage to the last with a resultant maximum economy of time and labor. No other plant has used the same system of loading as that worked out by the Atlantic Loading Company.

The general plant layout shows the division of the operations in separate buildings in such a way that, should fire or explosion start in one building, the other buildings in which the same operations are done, may still continue at work. In all plants the more hazardous operations instead of being localized in a single structure are carried on in either two or three duplicate buildings. With the cross conveyor system, great elasticity in operation is obtainable in emergency. The buildings are separated from each other by a minimum distance of 200 feet.

There are approximately 642 buildings of all classes required in the plant proper. The following list of those in the 75 mm unit indicate the character of the operating buildings:

Receiving, cleaning and shellacking buildings

Pouring and cooling building

Drilling and cleaning building

Assembling building

Packing building

Shipping building

Empty box and container storage

Cartridge case storage building

Smokeless filling building

Ammonium nitrate crushing and drying building

Ammonium nitrate storage building

T.N.T. storage service magazine

Smokeless storage service magazine

Primer magazine

Booster magazine

The producing units have, of course, a full complement of storage buildings, change houses for the changing of clothing of operatives, warehouses, shops, administration and other buildings.